CHAPTER I

"SIR," said the lively spirited George Marley, stepping out of a boat on to a wharf, "Campbell, we are in Jamaica, that land emphatically denominated by Smollet, 'the grave of Europeans;' but though it should be our resting place, we must e'en take our change in't." "A trace with such discourse, and let us think on what we are to do in this strange country," exclaimed the more sober-minded Campbell, "for gold is not to be found on the highways here, more than it is in old Scotland."

"Well, well," rejoined Marley, "let us adjourn in the meantime, out of the blaze of this burning sun, and procure some drink, to extinguish the torment of thirst which I feel, and we'll think on what is to be done."

Saying this, the two were proceeding to a tavern which was in view, while Campbell was pointing out to his companion a number negroes at work on the wharf, each clothed with only a pair of osnaburg trowsers, and these not very free of rents; at the same time, remarking that he wondered Christians would keep their servants so barely clad. He economically enough concluded, however, that the black fellows would not cost much for clothing, still less for shoes, as the latter article with them did not seem to be in fashion. And by the time the remark was finished, they entered the tavern.

On ascending the steps the two youths found several handsome mulatto girls, walking under the piazza, in front of the house. Not supposing they could be servants, from their dress and genteel appearance, nor the keepers of the house from their youth, they sung out for the waiter, when to their surprise, one of the brown beauties shewed them into the saloon, or principal apartment on the second floor. Their demands being asked, she bawled out Washington. When Washington made his appearance, in the shape of a negro boy, and his brown Mistress having given him the order, he quickly complied with it, in bringing them rum and water. Having quenched their thirst, and feeling comfortable from the coolness of the apartment, Marley broke silence, saying, "Campbell, we'll fill up a bumper, and though we have not broke bread, nor tasted salt in the island, we will drink prosperity to Jamaica, and those who live in it." The bumper being swallowed, and Campbell seeming thoughtful and pensive, Marley called out -- "cheer up my friend, why be disconsolate because we are in a strange land? Our chance is as good as others; and though it may not be a country like the one of old, promised to the children of Israel, as flowing with milk and honey, it, at any rate, is one flowing with rum and sugar, equivalents, in my opinion, no way inferior to milk and honey. Come, come, no drooping, you have a letter of recommendation, which no doubt, will insure you employment; and although I have none, my spirits are good, and my hopes are as sanguine as ever. Observe how beautiful the country looks, and how far it surpasses what we conceived of it; why then be downcaste?"

"My friend," answered Campbell, "you are blessed with a flow of spirits; but you not think on the dangers we are to encounter from this sickly climate and how short is the life of the great portion of those, who, like us, venture into this insalubrious region, where, of the numbers who arrive, many find an early grave." "Avast with these dismal forebodings," retorted his companion, "and let us live happily while we may. If sickness attacks us, we cannot prevent it, but why dread what may never happen; and even if we should be so unfortunate, we may recover, for sickness is not always deadly here, as well as elsewhere. My dear Campbell, keep up your spirits, and banish from your mind all melancholy ideas, for, believe me, nothing so much as the fear of sickness tends to bring it on. And in the meantime, we'll sally out, and deliver that same letter to your countryman and namesake, and mark what reception you receive from your clansman."

Accordingly, having paid Washington for their rum and water, they enquired of the dwelling of Mr. Campbell, the attorny, which was pointed out to them. On entering, a negro shewed them into that gentleman's counting room. It was vacant, but Mr. Campbell, with a very stately air, soon made his appearance; and the eventful letter being produced, and read by him, he, in a highland twang, desired the strangers to be seated. He afterwards welcomed them to the island -- enquired what kind of a passage they had made -- expressed himself pleased at the contents of the letter; and in particular, hoped they would be delighted with the country.

He did not seem to wish for any return of speech to what he said, for without allowing a moment's time for such, he went on. "Gentlemen," says he, "you will find the manners of this island very different from Scotland; but in a very short time, the prejudices you have imbibed in your country, will wear off, and then you will feel yourselves very comfortable. Take my word for it, this is the best poor man's country in the world, for with industry and economy, every man may here prosper." After saying so much, he addressed himself in Gaelic to young Campbell, and as Marley afterwards learned, he enquired for various persons in Argyllshire, who had formerly been his companions. Campbell, in the same lingo, having satisfied him in this respect with the attorny, in English, told him he had a situation on Lochfine estate for a book-keeper, which would answer him vastly well. The latter without hesitating an instant, accepted the offer, at a salary of 60 currency, equal to about 40 sterling; on hearing which, the attorny added, that, as he himself was going to dine upon Lochfine, he would lend him a horse, and take him up to the estate.

Marley, seeing his friend engaged, thrust in a word for himself, seconded by Campbell; but having no highland twang, the attorny instantly put the question to him "can you talk Gaelic?" Marley having answered in the negative, Mr. Campbell, with a toss of his head, and a look of contempt, replied, "I am sorry for it, for you seem a decent sort of a lad;" and after a short pause, he added, apparently by way of consolation, "but I have known some honest worthy people, though they could not speak Gaelic. At present, however, I have no situation in my employ which would answer for you."

Marley said no more, and as the arrangement had been made, that Campbell was to proceed to his destined place of residence with the attorny, they bade adieu, and Marley retired, in lower spirits than when he entered, after this, his first reception in the land of promise. He could not help feeling indignant, that Gaelic should be any test of capability in an English settlement; and he left the house, despising the attorny, for the pitiful nationality, or rather, the clannishness he exhibited. Pensively bending his steps towards the tavern he had left, pondering over his apparently destitute situation, he was awakened out of his reverie, by observing the captain of the ship in which he came out, in company with three gentlemen, advancing towards him. The captain cordially shook him by the hand, wished him joy of the new country, and introduced him to three of his countrymen, who, each in their turn, welcomed him to the island, with many proffers of service. They were merchants in the place, and Mr. Graceson, who was one of them, invited the party to his house, which was situated within a few yards, to have a glass of punch, it being then between one and two o'clock, or punch time of day. The invitation, as a matter of course, was accepted; and on entering, the lime juice and rum was exhibited, for each to manufacture his own punch, according to his taste, and Marley, following their example, found it a very pleasant and agreeable beverage.

After the praises of Jamaica punch were fully discussed, and after it was pronounced to be superior to any kind of wine, the captain found leisure to enquire after his shipmate Campbell. Marley then informed the company, that he had been engaged by the Attorny for Lochfine Estate; adding, at the same time, that that gentleman had not any vacant place which would suit him. To Marley's chagrin, he had no sooner finished, than they all burst out into a laugh. He felt hurt and irritated at such conduct, though he could not understand how he had become a fit object of sport. It was soon explained, however, by their exclaiming, "Oh, my boy, you can't talk Gaelic!" Seeing that his feelings had been somewhat injured, Mr. Graceson apologized, and told him, that they were only laughing at the "foible of their countryman, who has rejected you solely in consideration of your not being a Highlander; for to my certain knowledge, he has two or three vacancies; but it is not his practice to employ any person whatever, unless they are from the Highlands, and can talk Gaelic. The very negroes," continued he, "so well understand his predilection for the language of his clan, that when they see a walking buckra seeking employment on any of the estates under his charge, they accost him with the question, 'Can you talk Gaelic? For if you can't, massa no employ you." Mr. Graceson added, however, "if you wish to become a planter, I will procure a situation for you on a healthy property, and under a good overseer. But I would advise you to think of some other employment; for, believe me, you will not relish the life of a planter, or, as it is called in this country, a book-keeper."

This gentleman, at the same time, gave Mr. Marley so warm an invitation to make use of his house, till he was situated in some way or another that the latter was in a manner forced to accept of his friendly offer. It was afterwards agreed, that the party present should dine with Mr. Graceson; and this being fixed, the captain, with Marley, went out to look at the place, of which, the latter as yet had seen very little, and thus spend their time till the dinner hour should arrive.

In the first place, the captain led Marley to the tavern of Sally Jack, in whose house he lived while ashore; and from which place, orders were sent to one of the captain's boys to bring Marley's luggage from the ship. These instructions being given, they sallied out and very soon made the tour of the town. There was nothing worthy of remark to be seen, except the public buildings may be considered as such; for it contained a church with a steeple, a court house, in which were included the assembly rooms, a gaol, and a workhouse, thus marking it out as the metropolis of the parish; of which, by the way, it was the only town. It was a very neat little town, or more correctly speaking, a large village, in which several elegant houses were to be seen; and it bore the name of being more congenial to health, than any of the towns on the south side of the island. And after making this short tour, and calling at several stores where, in addition to the merchandise exposed, for sale, rum and water were exhibited to all whit comers to help themselves, the two retired to Sally Jack', to put on some fresh clothes, preparatory to making their appearance to pass the afternoon.

By the time they were freshly attired, the hour of dinner had approached; and when the captain with Marley reached the house of Mr. Graceson, the party were beginning to assemble. It consisted of those before mentioned, and three planters from the country. The dinner was elegant, being nearly in the same style as an English one; the wines were superior, the porter was delicious, and the attendance of the negro boys pretty good.

While at dinner, the discourse which prevailed was of a lively light nature, chiefly drawn from subjects in the country; but, as Marley was then unacquainted with them, though on every occasion explanations were given for his satisfaction, we will not trouble the reader with a recital.

During a pause in the conversation which happened to take place, one of the merchants in the company in an oblique manner having hinted to Marley, a remote inquiry, as to whom he had brought letters of introduction; the latter observed, that as none of his friends had any acquaintances in this part of the country, he had not brought any. Such questions not being consonant to the ideas of good breeding in the island, Graceson put a stop to the enquiry, by exclaiming, "Letters of introduction! What of them? I know their value to a scruple's weight; for do you know, gentlemen, when I came to the island, some twenty years ago, I brought six with me; and what might their worth be? Why, neither more nor less, than five dinners and one glass of grog -- that was the whole value of them; and yet those who received them, acknowledged they were from very dear and very respected friends, whom they would feel extremely happy to serve. Thus, gentlemen, we are enabled to fix the exact worth of a letter of introduction, as of the value of one dinner at the most, or at any rate of a glass of grog, thought I have known many who did not receive even so much. So, a truce with letters of introduction." And the conversation afterwards, to Marley's relief, took another turn.

Having sat a considerable time at table, till the evening was feeling cool, the party removed to the windows in the piazza, and set in for passing the night in the true West Indian style. Segars were handed round, each person made his grog. The tobacco was lighted, the grog was placed on the outside of the window to cool, and the evening was passed in smoking, drinking, and talking on similar subjects with that which had engaged their attention during and after dinner. And shortly before nine o'clock, the party retired to their respective places of abode for the night.

Marley was shewn to his bed-room. Feeling much fatigued from the heat, and continued dissipation of the day, he solaced himself with the prospect of a comfortable night's repose on land, after his voyage. But he found himself down to rest, than the noise made by the buzzing of the mosquitoes disturbed him; and, very soon afterwards, to his cost, he found that the buzzing was not their worst quality. He felt their stings in his face, and although he waved his hand, and tried every method he could think of to scare them away, his efforts proved fruitless. His European blood was too rich a feast for them, and though he slew numbers, by clapping his hands on his face, the buzzing and biting did not cease. He tried to keep the sheet, which was the whole of his bed clothes, over his face, but the heat thereby occasioned caused him soon to desist; and feeling it impossible to sleep, and being unwilling to awake any of the people in the house, he longed impatiently for morning. Being irritated from the want of sleep, and by the pain inflicted by the mosquitoes, he cursed them, the island, and all it contained; determining to fly from it with the first opportunity, let who pleased possess his anticipated fortune. After a long night, the most tedious and disagreeable he had ever passed, day began to dawn towards the hour of six. He started from his pillow more fatigued than when he lay down, and prepared to enjoy the cool of the morning, as a cure for the feverishness he experienced during the night.

On looking into a dressing-glass, his vanity, of which he had a considerable share, was sorely mortified, on observing his face much swollen and covered with blood. Water, however, took away the blood, but it did not allay the swelling; and he actually felt ashamed to appear before any person in such a state. He was thinking on what he should do, when Mr. Graceson entered his room, with his compliments of the morning; but his guest's face proclaimed, that it was unnecessary to enquire how he had rested during the night. Comforting him, however, with the consolation, that he had fared no worse than other new comers; that what he had suffered was only a Jamaica introduction into the island; that swelled face was a thing so commonly observed, and as all of them had undergone the same ordeal, no person would give any attention to it. And being urged to ride out with him, Marley reluctantly consented.

When they were passing several of the negroes in the yard at the back of the house, he observed a smile on their faces, which he took to himself; but, if he had not, it would soon have been confirmed to him beyond a doubt, that he was the subject; for when they thought he was beyond hearing, he heard one of them exclaim to the others, "Eh! Mosquitoes, hab grandy nyamn on dat new buckra!"

Marley being ignorant of the negro corrupted dialect, or the talkee talkee language, did not understand the expression; but observing Graceson to smile, with combined smothered feelings of anger and shame, he asked an explanation of what the negro had said. Graceson laughing, answered, that "the negro only meant, that the mosquitoes had had an excellent feast on your rich blood." But, added he, "these vile insects will soon give over biting you, and the only inconvenience you will afterwards sustain from them, will be from their buzzing, and this it is in a manner impossible to prevent. Use every precaution you please and when one considers the very small size of this winged torment, it excites every person's wonder, how their buzzing is so loud, that the negro name of Devil's Trumpeter for them, is, I must confess, not much forced."

The morning was delightful, the coolness was truly pleasant, the scenery was so novel, and the diversity of trees and shrubs so beautiful, and so different from any with which he was acquainted, that the sorrows of the night were forgotten, and he could not help exclaiming –"What a charming country!" As the sun ascended, and the breakfast hour approached, they retraced their steps and returned to the house, after enjoying a most pleasant ride for a couple of hours, and seeing a small portion of the country.

Breakfast was served up immediately on their return. It consisted of coffee, bread, plantains, potatoes, yams, turtle steaks, and American pickled salmon. For a short space the two were only together, but they were afterwards, joined by four overseers from the country, who, without any invitation, according to the custom of the colony, sat down at the table. Hospitality reigns throughout the island, and it is seldom that a merchant, in a parish town, sits down either to breakfast or dinner without some strangers in company with him. But in all thinly inhabited countries this virtue prevails, and the entertainer feels probably as much obliged as the entertained, especially in the country parts, in consequence of its breaking in upon the monotonous life, which people, in such thinly white inhabited districts, are necessarily obliged to live.

A breakfast in the West Indies, as the reader will observe, is very similar to a dinner in England, with the exception of the coffee; and the European inhabitants are almost universally of opinion, that they require such kind of food to support the exhausting perspiration of the day. But whether this opinion is well founded, the medical gentlemen must determine that the provisions of the country are excellent. The plantain is the best known substitute for bread, with which the bread fruit of Jamaica cannot be placed in competition. The yam, of which there are different kinds, supplies the place of potatoes exceedingly well, but the sweet potatoes of the country are too luscious for the palate of strangers fresh from Europe. After Marley had made a trial of the several sorts of bread kind, (ground provisions are so called,) on the table, the morning's meal was finished, when they separated, all having some business which required their attention, with the exception of himself.

Taking up an island newspaper, the novelty of its contents beguiled him of a tedious hour; but the heat became so excessive, while not a breath of air was moving, that he felt feverish and restless. It caused him to retract the good opinion he entertained of the country in the morning. The heat was so oppressive to him, that although he had taken possession of the most cool apartment in the house, he found he could not escape from it. "Oh, cold," at last he exclaimed, "how pleasant thou art to this intense heat!" Though cold may be great -- by a warm house, warm clothing, or violent exercise, a person can easily find a remedy to mitigate its effects; but, as to heat, it is impossible to fly from it, or to invent any plan to moderate its excess. But while laboring under the morning's heat, and indulging in such reveries as the above, he was agreeably pleased by a slight puff of wind. Finding that it gradually grew stronger, and was followed by a continued pretty smart breeze from the sea, his constitutional gaiety returned, his nerves, which were relaxed, becoming braced by the effects of the sea breeze, and the heat moderated by this cause till it was only pleasant, his former favourable ideas of the country again resumed their place. He felt ashamed even to himself at giving way to reflections, inconsequence of paltry difficulties, to which a short acquaintance would inure and render him callous.

At this time, Marley wanted nearly a year of attaining majority. His good sense taught him, that it would benefit him considerably to learn, or at least to see something of the business of a planter; and, that a year or thereby of his life spent in this manner, would not be lost time to him afterwards. And although he had heard unfavourable accounts of the labours of an inferior planter, he was determined to give it a trial; and, as the great body of the white people followed this mode of life, he could not perceive why he was not equally qualified for undergoing either the fatigues or the privations attendant on the situation.

In this way of thinking, he met Mr. Graceson, and stated to him that he wished much to make atrial, when that gentleman endeavoured to dissuade him from it. But seeing that he was resolute in his purpose, he ultimately agreed that it was the most beneficial employment a young man could follow; for, as the growing of sugar was the staple commodity of the island, a knowledge of it would be of great utility to him whatever profession he might hereafter adopt in the country. It was then agreed that Mr. Graceson should write to an acquaintance of his, who was overseer on a sugar estate about twelve or fourteen miles distant, and was at the time in want of a book-keeper. And as an opportunity of transmitting a letter occurred in the course of the day, one was forwarded, and an answer might be expected on the morrow.

Mr. Graceson, after finishing his business of the day, introduced Marley to several of his neighbours, who were merchants in the place, with whom they spent the remaining portion of the afternoon much in the same manner as the preceding one. And during the night, Marley enjoyed a tolerable sleep, in consequence of much precaution having been used, by burning tobacco and Indian corn stalks in his bed room, the fumigating process usually adopted to expel and destroy the mosquitoes.

After the morning's ride, Graceson and Marley were sitting down to breakfast, when a planter entered, who was immediately introduced to the latter, as Mr. Samuels, the overseer, of whom Mr. Graceson had spoken. Samuels seemed pleased with Marley, and by the time they had finished breakfast, the latter was engaged as under book-keeper, on the sugar estate of Water Melon Valley, in the room of a book-keeper who had been promoted; and at the same salary, as his friend Campbell was to receive from the Highland Attorny . Mr. Graceson had formerly given the overseer the character of being good tempered and humane, and not nearly so harsh as the great part of overseers are to the white people under their charge, and his countenance and manner did not belie the character. They both spoke favourably of the estate, as being pleasantly situated, and so healthy, that no white person had died on it during the last ten years; and in addition, Mr. Samuels promised that he would make everything as comfortable so Marley, as the nature of a book-keeper's situation would admit.

Marley was naturally anxious to learn the duties which a book-keeper had to perform; but Samuels evaded complying, by saying he would point them out to him on the spot. And after dinner, when the heat of the day had somewhat abated, Graceson having furnished Marley with the loan of a horse, and he having stuffed some few articles into a portmanteau, till an opportunity offered of sending up his trunks, bade him adieu, and departed along with his overseer.

As they proceeded towards the mountains, the country in the ascent from the sea shore became more and more romantic; and though the rural scenery was not enlivened with

"Lasses changing o'er the pail,

And shepherds piping in the dale;"

it resounded with the sounds of civilization and subordination, in so far as the smacking of whips are a proof. In the prospect too, numerous gangs of negroes were to be seen, apparently gently enough wrought; and, if a judgment was to be inferred from their singing, they were quite happy. While on the road, Mr. Samuels pointed out the different estates which they passed, and after calling at two or three of them to have a moment's chat and a drink, towards dark of a day about the middle of March, they reached Water Melon Valley Sugar Estate.

CHAPTER II

LEAVING Marley arrived at Water Melon Valley, it will perhaps be proper, towards the development of this history, to introduce the reader to him and his friend Campbell.

George Marley, the grandfather of the present youth of the same name, about seventy years preceding the date of the commencement of this narrative, landed in the harbor of Savannah la Mar, in the island of Jamaica, in search of a fortune. Where he came from, or to what family he belonged, has never transpired; but from his dialect, and from his general predilection for the Scots, it was very easy to perceive, that he was a native of North Britain. This is the whole which ever could be learned relative to his family and country, and no clue could ever be traced into the cause which occasioned such a mystery. It was shrewdly suspected, however, that some grounds existed for this secrecy; many conjecturing that he had been out in the year forty-five. This suspicion had its origin, from the circumstance of his shewing slight symptoms of displeasure, when the then universal subject of discourse was broached, about the rising in Scotland in 1745, especially when any person happened to call it a rebellion, and the Prince Charles Edward, the Pretender. But when he descanted on this subject, which was seldom, he uniformly denominated it the rising, and the Pretender was always honoured with the name of the Prince. In like manner, he could never bear to hear any of the gentlemen who had been concerned, called traitors, he himself always calling them gentlemen of family and respectability, who had suffered severely for being out at that period. It was upon this foundation the conjecture was formed, that he had been engaged in that affray, and had eloped, probably afraid of being harshly dealt with; and to prevent trouble, it is possible he had altered his name.

However, when the first of the Jamaica Marleys set foot on the soil, he was poor; but the fates seemed propitious in his favour, in consequence of the leeward part of the north side of the island, having about this period begun to be generally cultivated, the demand for white planters was great. Accordingly, old Marley was soon employed; and, as good fortune would have it, he was placed under an industrious proprietor, who loved to reward the deserving, where his diligence and good conduct soon gained him the esteem of his employer. Marley was ambitious to procure an independency, and in the pursuit of it, he, happily for himself, followed in the proper and invariably certain tract to obtain his ends. He was economical, but his savings were not hoarded in a bag; for, as soon as he was possessed of a year's salary, he laid it out in the purchase of a couple of negroes; and although he was short of the actual price, the planter whom he served, interposed his credit for the deficiency, and took the negroes on hire. In this system of strict economy he persevered, and the negroes he purchased being healthy, they seasoned well; the consequence was, that in a number of years after his arrival, he found himself the master of a fine jobbing gang.

Circumstances seeming so concurrent in his favour, and good situations being then easily procured, he ventured on taking a grant from the government, of a tract of uncleared ground, on a health situation, in one of the leeward parishes on the north side. The clearing of this land, and the erecting of sugar works, and the other requisite buildings, involved him considerably in debt. But his selfsame good fortune continuing to attend him, in a few years afterwards, by a continued run of good crops, he was enabled to free himself of every encumbrance, so that he remained the undoubted proprietor of a free sugar estate, on which he bestowed the name of Happy Fortune, thereby denoting that his ambition, as to property, was satisfied.

Being now at his ease, and a man of some consequence in the state, his next ambition was to become the founder of a family, with as long a tail as any in the island. Though he did not hope to see his waking dreams, of long-tailed Creole family realized during his life, the pleasure in the anticipation was so great, that he could not divest himself of the idea that, in the island, the name of Marley would become as famed, as the most celebrated names in the mother country.

Fraught with these ideas, notwithstanding he had been nearly thirty years in the country, which may be said to be rather more four generations in the general run among the European inhabitants, and now about fifty years of age, he looked around him for a female partner to share his wealth, and usher into the world, the family he so much desired. Being of a sanguine disposition, he was not afraid; and, in looking over the island, he could not in his own mind perceive a family, who would not be proud of an alliance with him, a rich sugar planter. And although there were numbers of passable young ladies among his acquaintance in the country, his affections centered on a lady, over whom at least twenty-five hurricane months had passed. This lady was the relict of a settler, some short time consigned to the earth, and who, for the love, favour and affection he bore to his spouse, had bequeathed to her a fine large property, adjoining one of old Marley's boundaries, called Conch Shell Penn, and which Penn was well stocked with breeding cattle. But whether the all potent sway of love was the cause of his attachment, or the love of Conch Shell Penn predominated, cannot be now ascertained, though the one was probably an inducement to the other. Be this however as it may, old Marley led the blushing widow to the altar, after due time had elapsed in mourning for her departed mate, when she became the mistress of Happy Fortune and Conch Shell Penn.

Months pleasingly elapsed after the marriage, and before the cane plants on Marriage Field were cut down, an heir to Happy Fortune sugar estate, and Conch Shell Penn was ushered into life, to the great joy of the parents, and the pleasure of their negroes, who rejoiced at whatever pleased their massa and missa. In other words, Mrs. Marley was delivered of a son, within a year after her marriage; the field being denominated Marriage Field, from the circumstance of its being planted with canes on the day of their marriage; it was therefore called such by the negroes, as a memento, to keep the same in remembrance. And as cane plants are usually ripe for cutting, in about eighteen months after their planting, thus the negroes, in fixing the epoch of time, said their young massa was born before the first cane plants on Marriage Field were cut down.

Old Marley was truly happy on the receipt of an heir, who would not only deep his name in remembrance, but as it afforded him the probable satisfaction of being the father of a long line of the race of Marley, his joy could scarcely be kept within bounds. But as all sublunary prospects of futurity, are indecisive and blended with disappointment, so it happened with this old gentleman; for many days had not elapsed after the happy event, before Mrs. Marley bade adieu to all terrestrial concerns, and returned to that earth from which she was created, to the inexpressible grief of her husband, and the regret of all who were acquainted with her. The old gentleman's sorrow was greatly augmented, from the same being unexpected, and from the infrequency of child-birth causing death, in such a climate as Jamaica.

Time, however, though it destroys all things, is an alleviator of grief, and old Marley gradually returned to his former cheerful habits; and while he could not help regretting his loss, his ideas were chiefly occupied with the future prospects of his son, who was baptized in remembrance of his father George, and he gave hopes of being a healthy and fine looking child.

Nothing of consequence occurred during the days of the young heir, till he attained his sixth year, when his father, at his own suggestion, and by the advice of his friends, prepared to send him to the old country, for the benefit of education. But as the period drew nigh when his son was to leave him for years, the anxiety of a parent for a beloved child was so very great, that he often determined to retain him in the country, although he knew, that in its then state, his education must be woefully neglected. His affection for his heir had, notwithstanding, nearly caused him to abandon his intentions of sending him home, (Britain being so called by all the inhabitants of the island, whether blacks, browns, or whites), had not his friends hinted, that his son could never attain any eminence in the island, without a proper education and British manners. Such an argument, directed to the old man's weak side, finally determined him to part with his boy for a time, because he himself often reflected on his own want of a liberal education, which prevented him from becoming a member of the House of Assembly -- an honour which he ardently wished, bur for which his good sense whispered to him, he was unqualified; and that by accepting of such an appointment, he was afraid he would only expose himself and shew his ignorance. Consequently, he never would become a candidate, though he was aware he had sufficient interest to procure his election. These wants in himself fixed him in parting with his child, notwithstanding the dangers of the seas were appalling, and looked fearfully alarming when his son was to be entrusted to them. But the hope that he would return the accomplished and learned gentleman, lulled asleep the dangers of the deep, as well as every other his parental tenderness could imagine; and in his mind's eye, he pictured that he would live to his return, and before he died he expected to see him a justice of the peace, a member of the House of Assembly, and a popular and flourishing orator therein. Nay, he even hoped he would see him a member of the Council; but though he trusted he would be custos rotulorum of the parish, he was afraid it would not be while he was in existence.

After revolving these very weighty considerations in his mind, he found he would be acting the part of an enemy to his child, if he retained him; and he saw it was better that the heir of Happy fortune sugar estate, and conch Shell Penn, should be exposed to some danger, than that he should merely exist as a wealth individual, without honour or eminence. Young George was therefore allowed to depart in a Scots ship, bound to the Clyde, the youth being consigned to a merchant in that port, with whom his father had dealings; with special instructions, however, to forward him to a proper and respectable seminary of education, in the metropolis of Scotland. In sorrow, the old gentleman parted with the hope of his age, fearful that he never again would behold his son; and he was nearly on the point of embarking along with him, to superintended his education, and watch over his youth with paternal care. But having a most decided hatred and antipathy to every sort of attornies, particularly to those who take charge of estates, that he (as he was in use to express himself) would sooner entrust his estate to a negro than to an attorny, persons whom he never otherwise named, than as the "swallowers up of estates."

Old Marley, therefore, would not venture the fruits of his industry into such hands, supposing, that when he returned, he would find a Dutch account of his crops. For, with respect to attornies, he was uncharitable enough to say, that they eat up or destroyed estates, and that their study was not to make the interest of the proprietors their own, but to derange the affairs of the plantations, in order that they might be continued in the management, till the property under their charge belonged to themselves. This old gentleman had probably seen one or two instances of the fatal effects of relying upon attornies, which had prejudiced him so much against the whole class, that he was determined to keep out of their hands while he lived. He was resolved, too, that his heir should imbibe his opinions, if frequency of repetition was possible to cause such an effect. He often used to say, it was his decided opinion that a sugar planter would always prosper, if he only never placed trust in an attorny. And, in every monthly letter which he regularly dispatched to his son, after he was ten years of age, he never in a single instance failed to guard him against the mortal evil of trusting attornies, or the managers of the affairs of estates; -- unquestionably, in a great many instances a very unjust prejudice.

Young George was pleasantly wafted to the shores of Britain, and on his arrival in the port, he was transmitted, with due care, to a respectable seminary in Edinburgh. The youth grew up towards manhood, but in place of advancing with rapid strides, in the attainment of literature or science, he seemed slow and dull, more likely to indulge in indolence and sloth, than rise to eminence in the most trifling society in the world. Without any thing worthy of remark, years passed on till the young gentleman had attained his nineteenth year. About this period, and while he was studying at the University of Edinburgh, he somehow or other became acquainted with Miss Annabella Stewart, the only daughter of dissenting clergyman in that city or its neighbourhood. This young lady was some months younger than George Marley, and was celebrated for beauty; however, be this as it may, it seems they indulged a mutual passion; but having some reasons to dread that her parents would be obstacles in the way of their marriage, without his father's consent, they agreed, and actually went before a magistrate, where they were irregularly, though by the laws of Scotland, which in this respect are very favourable for young persons, legally married.

Concealment afterwards was their object. The young pair hoped it would not be frustrated, till the consent of those whom they wished was obtained. But this desire of theirs was prevented, from a circumstance which they had not alluded to, although it very naturally might have occurred to them. The young wife, several months after marriage, found herself in the way that most women wish to be who love their lords, and in consequence, they were compelled to disclose to her parents what would have soon disclosed itself. The reverend gentleman and his lady expressed their dissatisfaction; but an observer could very easily perceive they were not seriously angry, that their daughter had allied herself to the heir of a rich Jamaica planter. The peace of the young couple being thus soon made, the lady's parents insisted on the marriage being regularly solemnized, according to the forms and injunctions of the Kirk of Scotland, and after due formalities were complied with, a day was fixed, when the marriage was regularly performed, though not more legally than before.

The young gentleman was desired to inform his father of the event -- but being diffident of the reception which his choice might meet, he always postponed it, determining in his own mind, that another opportunity would be more fit than the present. This mode of avoiding, what he was afraid to disclose to a father, of whom he had but a faint recollection, he continued for a length of time. Mr. Stewart often urged him to make the disclosure, stating as an inducement, that if his father actually had the welfare of his son at heart, and even although he might have had other views for him, yet, he would forgive what was now unavoidable, and receive both into favour. Such a mode of argument had frequently been adopted by the young gentleman's father-in-law; but George, on some frivolous pretext or other, evaded complying with what he agreed was reasonable, and what in all probability would succeed with his father. But, as old Mr. Marley was very liberal in supplying his son with remittances, Mr. Stewart was the propriety of avoiding an open rupture with his son-in-law on this account, trusting, that time would bring about the explanation, which the young man was afraid of disclosing.

An event however, which brought pleasure to all the parties in Edinburgh, took place at this time, by the safe accouchement of Mrs. Marley, who introduced a young stranger into the world, and a grandson to the founder of the family in Jamaica. As might be expected, it occasioned a scene of rejoicing, and gave promise of fulfilling the wish of old Mr. Marley for a long-tailed family. But, it is probable, the old gentleman would have wished, had he known the circumstance, that his grandson had been born in the island which he had adopted as his country, rather than in Scotland, though a country somewhat famed.

It was agreed that the young nameless stranger, should bear the Christian appellation of his father and paternal grandfather. He was accordingly named George for them and Stewart for his maternal grandfather, and he is the young gentleman of that name, whom we left on Water Melon Valley Sugar Estate.

Shortly after the young George had received his denominators, his father commenced writing an account of the whole events to old Mr. Marley, judging, that the grandson would have great interest in making the peace of the father; and as a farther advancement for pardon, he mentioned, that he and his spouse, in the course of two or three months, would sail for Jamaica. But the information was not dispatched many days before a letter from the old gentleman was received, stating, that in consequence of his horse having fallen with him, he was much hurt, and in a very bad state of health. He insisted particularly therefore, that his son should instantly embark for the island, in order that he might have the prospect of seeing him, before he departed this life. Being evidently in a desponding state, he added, that as life was uncertain, even when a person is in the very best state of health, his could be very little depended on, considering his then present sickness, together with his very advanced age, having a few weeks previously celebrated his jubilee, in consequence of having resided fifty years in the country. He desired his son to prepare for the worst that might happen, adding for his information that he was not in any degree in debt, though various persons were indebted to him. He also mentioned that he had executed a strict tailzie of Happy Fortune and Conch Shell Penn, and that as his distrust of attornies still remained, he had appointed as executor, a planter in his neighbourhood, of whose integrity he was pretty certain. But, as executors in general were as bad as attornies, if not rather worse, he had concealed the writings of the estates and other important papers in a place in his mansion-house which he described, to prevent the possibility of danger from such a person taking advantage of his situation. Which papers he added would enable him to detect any imposition on the part of the executor, if he should endeavor to make a wrong use of the trust reposed in him. With some moral maxims, and a special advice to beware of attornies, and with sincere wishes for the prosperity and happiness of his son, the old gentleman concluded his letter.

From this old gentleman's opinions, it seems he entertained a very bad idea of mankind in general, especially of those with whom he was associated -- but it must have flowed from an unfounded prejudice, for, it may be held as an established maxim, that in Jamaica, as well as in every other country, for one had an unjust man, there is at least a dozen good and worthy men. This letter was followed in a few days by another, forwarded by a private ship, containing the melancholy intelligence, that the first of the Jamaica Marleys was gathered to his fathers.

At this era, the son was rather advanced beyond his twentieth year. As some months must therefore necessarily elapse, before he could enter upon the management of his own affairs, he thought he might as well remain in Edinburgh till he attained the age of majority, and then sail for Jamaica, where he would appear as master of his own actions, and of his own property. Happy in their love, time to this young pair flew on the wings of prosperity, and having enjoyed the merry meeting of celebrating the event of his entering into his twenty second year, they prepared for their departure. They did not intend to remain, however, in the island more than two or three years, at the expiry of which time, it was hoped, they would be enabled to revisit Scotland. Their child, therefore, was left with its grand-parents till their return.

It was in the dead of winter when they sailed. The ship was spoken to by an American vessel when clearing the channel, after which, she was never heard of more. Mr. Stewart remained long in suspense relative to his children, and hope flattered him, that the ship had put into some place from which no direct intelligence could be conveyed. But after the expiry of eighteen months, he was obliged, however reluctantly, to agree with those concerned in the ship, that she, with all on board, had perished at sea. The reverend gentleman was sorely afflicted at the loss of his dear children; but his grief was tempered by resignation to the will of him, who giveth, and who taketh away at pleasure; but not so his beloved spouse. It was a death stroke to her, and although she survived for nearly three years, her melancholy for the unhappy and unfortunate catastrophe, broke her constitution, and dragged her to the grave, about the period, when young Marley reached his fourth year.

But he was too young to know or observe the cause of this affliction of his grandparents. He was their delight, and nothing for his welfare, was omitted by them which could benefit him. In short, he was the only tie which bound the old people to life. In him they saw the whole of their posterity, and they hoped he would one day be an honour to them.

Mr. Stewart was extremely attentive to his duties as a pastor. His congregation was very partial to him, and he was generally loved, for the urbanity of his manners, for his pious conduct, for his sincere brotherly love for all mankind, and for his hatred to that animosity, which too often arises, from the contracted views, and the bigoted party spirit of the clergy. He was unacquainted with the ways of the world, and like many good men, he was unconscious of guile and deceit in himself; he therefore thought men to be better than they actually are.

After he was fatally convinced his children were no more, he acquainted the executor of old Mr. Marley of the event of the young gentleman having a son, who was under his charge, and who of course, would fall to inherit the estates in Jamaica. And since the executor had been appointed by the old gentleman, he wished him to continue in the management for his grandson, till he was of age. To this information and request, an answer in due time was returned by the executor, Simon M'Fathom, Esq. of Equity Hall, agreeing to the request; but containing the unwelcome intelligence, that the Island had been visited by the tail of a hurricane, which had done considerable damage; and in particular, had much injured the buildings upon the estates; have very materially injured the canes and the growing ground provisions of the negroes; and so destructive were its effect, that a number of good years would be required to replace the ravages which the property had already sustained.

The writer wishes it to be understood, that where the names of persons or estates occur, he does not allude to real persons or estates bearing such names; and for mentioning real names of estates, he begs to apologize, and his excuse for so doing, is simply, that he had no other alternative, because, every celebrated name occurring either in sacred, fabulous, ancient, or modern history, nay even in romance, as well as every other distinguishing epithet in our language has been appropriated to some estate or other.

As naturally might be expected, Mr. Stewart was sorry for this calamity; but notwithstanding, he consoled himself that it would be repaired long before the child stood in need of assistance from it. He continued at intervals, to correspond with Mr. M'Fathom during several years, but from the statements of that gentleman, little prospects of wealth from the property was to be looked for. From the accounts transmitted, the estates were far from flourishing -- the soil was becoming exhausted, -- crops were occasionally failing from a constant dry weather, the slaves were decreasing, and the houses and works were always requiring repairs; and in short, Mr. M'Fathom was despairing of ever being enabled to pay the debts he had contracted, on the faith of being repaid from the property. By such accounts, the correctness of which, from the nature of the men, as has been observed, he never thought of doubting, and of course, they underwent no examination; the consequence of which was, that after the lapse of a few years, he abandoned all hopes of wealth from that quarter.

Meanwhile, young George grew up under the careful attentions of the pastor and his spouse, while she liked, and by him after her death. He received a very liberal education, and he was not wanting either in diligence or capacity to improve by it, so that he gave early signs of attaining eminence in after life, if his prospects should not be blasted by untoward events.

The reverend old gentleman had now many years regretted the loss of his daughter, her husband, and his own wife; and from age and infirmity, seemed fast declining into that state where the weary are at rest. Feeling himself rapidly decaying, he spoke to his beloved grandson as follows: "My dear George, I am fast going the way of all the earth. I feel that my existence will not be long in this world, and my only regret at leaving it, arises from parting with you at an age so dangerous to youth. All that I have saved from my income is but small; but with economy and industry I trust you will find it sufficient to enable you to enter into one or other of the liberal professions. You are now nearly seventeen years of age, and have received an education which I hope will qualify you for entering upon the studies of law or medicine; -- either of which I leave to your choice, but my wishes are, that you should follow one of them. Deliberate for a few days, and then mention to me which of these you feel inclined to follow, or what other mode of life prepossesses you most."

The reverend gentleman ceased, and George retired to ponder in his thoughts the subject adverted to; but ever since he had attained the age of thinking with any correctness, his every idea centred in Jamaica; and he never ceased in his expectations of recovering his grandfather's property. His hope was sanguine; he felt certain that if he was in the island, he would not fail in retrieving what was his due; and from the duplicates of his grandfather's letters, and those of his executor, he conceived that all was not fair and just. He therefore thought there was no necessity for his entering into any profession. But whenever the subject happened to form part of any conversation in his grandfather's presence, the latter expressed his fears so warmly for the life of his grandson, and his unwillingness to consent to a measure which had already occasioned him so much loss, that the youth abandoned the hope of getting there while the reverend gentleman lived. His regard for him was so truly affectionate, that without his consent, he would not leave Scotland.

To please his grandfather, therefore, George informed him, that he preferred the profession of the law to any other. This he did, in the hope that he might learn a little of the chicanery of this hocus pocus science, which he might afterwards turn to his advantage in recovering his own just property; and though the old gentleman was not aware of the cause, this election seemed to give him great satisfaction. After bestowing on him a number of common place advice, relative to his success in life, and his conduct as a lawyer, it was resolved he should now commence his studies, to qualify him for acting before the Scottish Bar. The election was no sooner made, than he entered upon his course; but his ideas being more engrossed with the thoughts of Jamaica, than the law, his proficiency in his studies was far from being rapid. But about three years after his commencement, the death of Mr. Stewart put a close to the same forever.

This gentleman, for a number of years, had been gradually declining, and some days after he had attained his sixtieth year, he breathed his last. Young Marley with sincere grief said the conclusion was daily approaching, but now, that his worth protector and father was no more, he felt he was desolate in the world, without a single relation whom he had ever seen, and that very few indeed among the friends of his own, or of Mr. Stewart, would be interested in his fate. But being of a sanguine temperament, and at that time of life, when the spirits are most buoyant -- when hope tells flattering tales, his grief gradually subsided, and his dejectedness was forgotten.

After attending to the narrow house, the once animated clay of the last of his relatives, he prepared for bidding adieu to his native isle, and to tread on the soil of that country which gave his father birth.

On converting the moveables of his grandfather into money, and paying the debts which he owed, he found himself possessed of nearly 500 in cash. A vessel being on the eve of sailing for the desired land, he bade adieu to his friends, and embarked at Leith, in a ship, long known in Jamaica by the name of the Scotch Guineaman, bound for a certain Leeward port, on the north side of the island.

His companion, John Campbell, was from the Highlands of Argyle, who, like Marley, went to Jamaica in the expectation of recovering the property of an elder brother, who had died in the island some years previously, of whom rumour said, he had left something considerable; and also, in the additional hope of realizing a fortune by his own exertions. He had been intended for the Church, but after proceeding in his studies for a time, he abandoned them to become what is vulgarly called a slave-driver, flattering himself, that more happy prospects awaited him, even in that situation, in a foreign land.

The intimacy of these young men commenced on ship-board, and, though their dispositions were somewhat contrary, the one being all life and glee, while the other was rather sedate; but both being good-natured, well-disposed, and their ages nearly alike, they agreed extremely well, and before the voyage terminated, they were like sworn brothers.

Their voyage was pleasant; but it is now time that we resume the thread of our history, and return to Marley, who was left on Water Melon Valley Sugar Estate.

CHAPTER III

ON Mr. Marley's arrival at Water Melon Valley Buckra house, (overseer's house), Mr. Samuels introduced him to his brother book-keeper, Mr. Langbey, and to Mr. Wright, the estate's carpenter. Supper being then on the table, they sat down, the overseer having previously given directions to put the apartment allotted for Marley into some order. The meal, which consisted of herrings and plantains, was passed nearly in total silence, and when over, Mr. Langbey was desired to shew the new book-keeper his room. This he did, at the same time, he, with the carpenter, warmly welcomed the new-comer to the estate, both saying, that there was not a finer nor a better property than the preset, notwithstanding the employ was not esteemed a very good one, as the attorny had but few properties under his charge. They also spoke favourably of the overseer, though at times, they said, he was rather of a distant turn, with the white people under him.

After chatting with them for an hour or so, Marley was left to himself. His first action was to examine his room, which was a few yards separate from the Buckra house, but under the same roof, with the rooms of the first book-keeper and the carpenter. It was formed of wood, was one story in height, standing upon short posts, and could bodily be removed from the place it occupied, if so desired. The apartment might be about eight or nine feet square, with a single window without glass, which latter article was supplied by what is called in the country, a Jealasie* window, being something in the nature of a venetian blind, the same moving up and down. This lattice window was of such coarse construction, that it had an exact resemblance to the article which fills up the open spaces in the walls of a corn store. The furniture consisted of a table and a chair, with a posted bed, decorated with hangings of a striped coarse cotton cloth, and on the table stood a wash-hand basin, with a jug full of water. The ornaments on the walls were a soldier's musket, with bayonet, belts and cartouche box, and the drawer in the table, held between forty and fifty ball cartridges, to supply the musket, if necessary, in terms of the law, regarding the ammunition, in a book-keeper's apartment. But everything was extremely clean, and Marley feeling fatigued, he turned into bed; but what his mattress was stuffed with puzzled him to tell though next day on enquiry he learned that it contained plantain leaves. He soon fell asleep while thinking if these were the privations he had heard talked of so often he thought he was not such a petit maitre as to be unable to weather them.

Next morning with the first dawn of day, he awakened, and made his appearance before the overseer, at the moment the latter had left his bed-room. The overseer seemed pleased at observing his punctuality, telling him that as crop time would be over in about three or four weeks, he would ask him to perform on more duty than that of attending the boiling house alternately with Mr. Langley, whose chief occupation was in the still house. He added, "I myself will look after the cutting of the canes, and the other out of door work, and furnish you with every instruction in my power, by which means, I hope in a very short time to make you a good planter."

After giving instructions to a couple of negro drivers, he desired his boy Cyrus, to take his mule to the oiling house, to which on foot, he accompanied Marley, mentioning to him on the path some of the qualities of the negroes, who would belong to the new book-keeper's spell. "The firemen Titus," said he "is a very lazy fellow, who frequently falls asleep and forgets the fire. Hanlet, who relieves him, is nearly as bad. The sugar boilers are tolerably attentive, especially the head men, Quashie and Cesar. Cataline and Tome are far from being bad fellows, and it is long since I have found fault with Eneas and Rodney. But notwithstanding, keep a good look out, and take care that they do not give liquor out of any of the teachers or boilers, except the second one. Beware of Brutus, the sugar carrier, for he is a damnable thief; but so timid, that if you watch his motions, he will not venture to steal. Plato takes spell after him, and he is not much better than Brutus; but from your own observations, you will soon know the characters of those who will be immediately under your charge. I trust, however, that your attention will be such, that you will put it out of the power of any of them, to carry sugar from the curing house to Calibash estate. I am extremely anxious on this head, for the attorny has been making complaints, that large quantities of sugar from this property, has found its way to that estate during his season; and although I am dubious of belief in the justness of the complaints, still, I wish to allay all suspicions of our being inattentive. And as a stranger, allow me to advise you to adopt the opinion generally entertained by the white inhabitants of this country, which, though somewhat illiberal, is pretty true in fact; "that whenever you see a black face, you see a thief."

By this time, they had entered the boiling house. Langley was keeping spell, or in other words, had charge of the negroes employed in preparing the sugar, from the juice of the sugar cane. The overseer had no sooner entered, than the former retired to the Still house, to take his spell in that place, by attending to the distillation of the rum. Mr. Samuels then pointed out to Marley, the duties which were required from him, at the same time explaining the mode of manufacturing and curing the sugar, and shortly afterwards left the house.

Marley, being left alone among the negroes, carefully examined the premises, and the process by which the now absolutely necessary article of sugar, in all civilized countries, was prepared. While doing so, he was greeted by every one of the negroes in the house, with "Happy to see him Massa, and him hopes that Massa will lib long on Water Melon Valley." Such a salutation was reiterated again and again, commencing with Cudjoe, who had charge of the filling and emptying of the receivers, in which the juice of the cane flowed, on being expressed in the mill, -- afterwards by Rodney, by a Cataline, and by Quashie, till it terminated with a similar compliment from Brutus, who emptied the coolers and carried the sugar from thence into the curing house, where it was deposited in the hogsheads. Nay, even Titus left his fire, to state how happy he was at seeing Massa on Water Melon Valley.

Before the day was passed, he was completely sick of acknowledging bows and curtsies, and hearing the same cuckoo song of, "Happy to see him Massa, and him hopes that massa will lib long on Water Melon Valley." It was repeated nearly two hundred times, and he believes that not a single Negro, whether male or female, upon the property, except those who were watchmen, but called to see and compliment their new book-keeper. It was repetition with a vengeance, and put all the patience of his good nature to a severe test; but on reflecting for a moment, that each of these people though slaves, naturally attached some consideration to himself or herself, he felt he would be acting ungratefully, if he did not acknowledge each greeting, in as cordial manner as the compliment was tendered to him, even though repeated as a parrot would have done.

At intervals, during the day, he had fully explored every nook and corner of the boiling house. He found there a chair and a table for his convenience, with a mattress to sleep on during the night, and a rug to cover him. He knew he was a book-keeper, but although every place had undergone narrow scrutiny, he could not find the vestige of a book of any description; nay, there was not even so much as pen and ink in the whole house. He was puzzling himself with thinking what kind of books, or what kind of entries he should have to make, when he observed Brutus, on the completion of emptying a cooler, reach his hand over the table, to a board, a few inches square, regularly drilled with small holes, from one of which he withdraw a peg, and placed it in a hole, one degree farther removed. This act of his at once explained the mystery to Marley, who saw that this board was the book, which he was to keep, that the peg was the pen, and the number of holes passed through by the peg, in the course of twenty-four hours, was the numeration of the coolers, and which again, was the quantity of sugar made in a day. This made of book-keeping, it must be confessed, was far from being complex, and in consequence no study was requisite.

Throughout the day, the overseer did not forget him, for he received for breakfast, a jug of coffee, a couple of herrings, and the same number of plantains. Dinner in like manner was sent, consisting of soup, roast beef, yams, and plantains, with a jug full of grog, and for supper, a plate of what remained after dinner, with a plantain or two. He had scarcely finished his evening meal, when the overseer entered, who having examined the proceedings of the day, and counted the number of holes the peg had passed through, he desired Marley to lock the door after him and put the key in his pocket. He also cautioned him in an especial manner to lay his mattress over the gutter through which water used in cleaning the receivers ran out of the house, as through it sugar was often conveyed, and when he felt drowsy, he might lay himself on the mattress and sleep a little in that situation. Marley accordingly did lock the door, caused the mattress to be laid over the water run, and after taking a few turns up and down the boiling house, he thought everything was snag, and that he might without any bad consequence ensuing, seek a little repose.

He laid himself down, but although he felt himself considerably fatigued, he could not sleep. The almost incessant cries of the boiler men for more fire, or up and down with the cooler, be wiled in a stentorian voice through a long bamboo to be to the fireman, was enough of itself to prevent sleep to one unaccustomed to such sounds. But these sounds were not the only ones which tended to "murder sleep," for to them fell to be added, the squalling of near a dozen of girls and boys, who were seated on the shafts of the gin, forcing on the mules that turned the mill. These drivers partly for their own amusement, and partly to increase the speed of the beasts, joined in a general chorus, which, according to their natural ideas of melody, they kept up at the height of their voices. Though it was then rather grating to Marley's ear, it pleased themselves, and what was of more consequence, it pleased the males, and made them perform more work than whipping in all probability would have done. From this, a hint may be derived by those who ground their notions on the old saying of stubborn as a mule, so try singing to the animals when they find that neither the whip nor spur will force them on, and if they are fond of merry music, like the present ones, anything will answer for music, for there could not be said to be either rhyme, reason, or melody, in what the negroes roared to them.

Sleep for Marley, there was none, and accordingly he forsook his pillow, and watched the proceedings for the people. In this manner he was killing time, during which, however, he was noting in his memory everything which was passing forwards. When thus employing himself, a slave boy named Plato, who was emptying a cooler, thinking him earnestly engaged at a distance from the water run, he secretly filled a calibash with sugar, and was lifting the mattress to thrust it out, when Marley turned around and saw him. The new book-keeper felt indignant that the negroes should attempt to play upon the faith of his experience, and hurrying towards Plato, caught him with the calibash in his hands, which contained between three and four pounds weight of sugar. Seized in the act, he made no apology, but begged hard for pardon, praying that Massa would not tell the Busha, (the Overseer), and upon his promising better behaviour for the future, he was forgiven by Marley. This act of clemency seemed to have a bad effect, for next morning, when the night spell had been relieved, and Brutus was at his post, towards whom Marley had been specially put on his guard, for he, unlike his ancient virtuous namesake, was a great thief. A negro girl, along with some others entered the boiling house, to get some liquor from the coppers. Marley kept a sharp eye after them, though at the time engaged weighing out some lime to put into a receiver, he observed Brutus returning from the curing house, evidently concealing something which he handed to a negro girl. The book-keeper instantly went up to her, and asked what she had under her petticoat. She declared she had nothing, and Marley feeling delicate to search a female, even though a black one, she was endeavouring to hedge off, when one of the negro boilermen, who had not the same scruples, came and took from her a calibash full of sugar. On calling her a thief, she felt indignant though caught in the very act, exclaiming, that "him no tief from Massa, him take from Massa." But on Marley's learning that she was Molly, the wife of Brutus, he told them he would inform the Busha, and let him do what he pleased with them. They begged however so hard for forgiveness, and promised so positively they would not try the like again, that the book-keeper, who was naturally of a tender disposition, and who had often heard of the very severe punishments which were inflicted on negroes, though he had never seen any, reluctantly consented, being very much irritated at his second attempt to impose on him. He at the same time told the whole of whom were present, the very first offender who should afterwards be discovered, would be punished.

Marley now imperceptibly began to lose his former favourable opinion of the Negroes being a much calumniated race, and to resort to the one formed by persons daily conversant in their management, and which he had been advised to adopt, that when he saw a black face, he saw a thief. It must be confessed he had some cause for drawing such an inference, notwithstanding the alleviating circumstance pleaded by Mrs. Brutus, that "him no tief from massa, him take from massa," meaning the proprietor; and therefore, as she was his property, she formed part of himself, argal, what was his was hers; argal, she could not steal from him without stealing from herself, though she might take from him part of the conjunct property in communing between them, which however, in her opinion did not amount to theft; but was only her share of the common goods belonging to them. This reasoning was rather fine spun, but coming from a negro, it proves, that the race is well adapted to metaphysical studies, and that in the course of time, when they are better instructed than at present, some wire drawn cobweb theory on metaphysics, may be expected from some black man, to illuminate and instruct mankind, and to convince the world, that a negro has as much, and as well assorted brains, as any man whose face is white.

But we must not allow ourselves to be lost in such reflections. Marley was not satisfied with such reasoning. He was not in college, where such a theorem might be a matter of much serious and grave discussion, forced and supported by learned quotations and deep researches, and decided with as much deliberation, as if the existence of the learned professor's salary depended on its correctness being ascertained. No. He found that superintending the making of sugar depended less on theoretical than practical study, and as a practical student he could not make any distinction between taking and stealing. He had another reason for withdrawing his favourable opinion of the blacks, arising from the fact, that in the two instances of theft, numbers saw the act committed, without shewing any concern, or offering to prevent it; but it is probable, they thought there was no harm in the theft, or rather, that Plato and Brutus were doing no more than what they themselves would have done, had the same opportunity occurred to them. Liquor, or rather sirup, was furnished to hem after every spell, if they chose to ask for it, but with that they were not satisfied, all their endeavours, as it was also said and appeared, being towards the mode of obtaining sugar, or in other words, in contriving how to steal it, for they had no allowance of that article. They might naturally enough think, therefore, that as they performed the whole work in making it, they had some right to a part, and as this seemingly equitable claim was refused to them, it was only justice on their part to steal as much as they could, and in that manner receive their share. They did not argue in this way, it was in this way they acted, and actions are a better proof of opinion than words.

The day following was spent like the preceding one in watching the negroes, and in adjusting the peg, according as the coolers were emptied, till six o'clock came, when Marley was relieved for the night by the head book-keeper, whose turn it now was, to keep spell in the boiling-house during the night.

While taking supper in the Buckra house with the overseer and the carpenter, Marley was surprised at the overseer mentioning the occurrences of the theft, the intelligence having been communicated to him by one of the house wenches. He said it was misplaced leniency, to overlook the thefts of such fellows as Brutus and Plato, but since you have promised to do so, I will say nothing about. I am glad, however, you have been so vigilant, and I trust you will continue so, for vigilance only will prevent stealing by those under you, the best of whom are thieves.

This night, as the carpenter afterwards remarked, the overseer was a little talkative, and having got a box of segars that forenoon from the town, he invited the carpenter and Marley into the piazza, after supper, to try them and drink a glass of grog with him. He began by addressing himself to Marley, with saying, "I spoke to you yesterday about the Calibash Estate, but as I then did not explain myself I will do so now. Calibash Estate is by far the largest in the island, though it cannot with propriety be said to have any express owners. I rather think every sugar proprietor is somewhat concerned in it. But be this as it may, it is from this estate the great part of the white people in the towns and the free browns and blacks supply themselves with the essential article of sugar. It derives its name, I believe, chiefly owing to no coopered casks being used, the substitute for which are calibashes, procured from the calibash tree, of which there are no scarcity, and in which the sugar is not only carried out of the estate, but conveyed to market and sold, according to the apparent size of the calibash. No weights or measures being used by the proprietors of this large estate. Another peculiarity attached to this estate, is, that the crop is almost uniformly disposed of on Sunday, no other day in the week being so suitable to the owners. To make a long story short, Calibash Estate comprehends the whole island of Jamaica, each sugar plantation furnishing a little, some more and some less, according to circumstances. But it differs very materially in regard to good crops being produced from it, with that of good crops from any single estate, for when a good crop is produced from a single estate, praise is bestowed and promotion ensured to the planters; but if it is only supposed that at any time a good crop is taken off for Calibash Estate, the planters, in place of promotion, must go and seek their bread elsewhere. Calibash Estate, therefore, is furnished from the sugar purloined by the negroes from the various plantations on which they live, and form the extent of the population which they supply, the quantity stolen in a year must be immense. It seems, however, altogether impossible to put an entire stop to this nefarious traffic, for Calibash Estate will always be supplied. But, where the white people are continually on the alert, they in a great measure are enabled to save their own sugar from being embezzled."

After having smoked some few segars and drank some grog, the party retired to their respective apartments for the night, to resume again the same monotonous routine of life when day appeared.

Daylight next morning found Marley at his post, and day after day passed over in the same manner, with the exception of no farther thefts being detected, till Sunday, which was a day of rest.

For the first two or three days, the new book-keeper could scarcely observe any difference in the faces of the negroes, to enable him to distinguish them in the same manner as he could have done white people; but before the week terminated, the variety in the distinction of black features, were becoming so perceptible, that he was able to recognize a great many of them. He could not help remarking, that almost everyone seemed to be in good flesh, with smooth skins and healthy countenances, though they were now near the termination of the most toilsome round of their yearly work. The sirup, with which they were abundantly supplied, was said to be the cause of their good appearance. Apparently, as to them, it was of a very nutritious quality, whereas sweets in Britain, are often thought prejudicial to health, but such seemed to have a contrary effect on the negroes. But what most surprised him, was, that they were almost universally supplied with an excellent set of ivory in their mouths, although, according to our established notions, their teeth ought to have been bad to support the opinion that sugar is destructive to them. No such consequence, however, followed from the great quantity of sirup which they used, during the one half of the year or thereby, for their teeth were superlatively fine. It follows, therefore, that if sugar has the effect of destroying teeth, it is only those of white people, having the humanity to spare those of the blacks whose labour produces it.

Sunday being a day of idleness, Marley had an opportunity of viewing the estate, little of which he had seen from his close confinement. The Buckra-house was pleasantly situated on an eminence, which commanded a beautiful prospect of hiss and dale for miles around. The works and the trash houses, were in an excellent state, and the stone fences enclosing the cane fields were in good repair. Numbers of the cane plots which had been cut early in the season, were assuming a luxuriant appearance, and the pasture grounds abounded with numerous fruit trees common to tropical climates. It was altogether a delightful estate, and Marley only wished that Happy Fortune and Conch Shell Pen would equal it.

From the novelty of the vegetation, he enjoyed his solitary rambles, although he would have wished for some person, to have explained to him the names and natures of the different vegetable productions, which came under his observation. But this could not be, for the overseer, the first book-keeper, and the carpenter, were subscribers to a raffle of a fowling piece, which was to be shot for that day, and Marley, not having yet procured a horse, he in consequence could not accompany them. No disgrace being considered so great in the island, as that of a white man being seen walking on foot when away from his home. No person does it, but such as have forfeited their character and situation, and who, in consequence, are styled walking buckras, a name, synonymous to beggar, coupled with that of vagabond.

Marley, to obviate this difficulty, empowered the overseer to purchase a good one for him, for which he would pay him ready cash, (his vanity prompting him,) to be equally well mounted with any of the overseers, and superior to most of book-keeper.

At night, the party came home, neither of them having the fortune to be the lucky shot. Consequently, the fowling piece did not grace their return; and after some trifling discussion on the subject of the shooting, the party sought repose.

Next morning, the routine of boiling sugar recommenced but nothing worthy of remake occurred, till the afternoon of a day, some three weeks afterwards, when the making of sugar for a year was finished, or as it is termed, crop over. Immediately afterwards, the negroes assembled in and around the boiling house, dancing and roaring for joy, to the sound of the gumba, at the completion of this species of labour. This favourite instrument of music, the gumba, consists of a square box, with a piece of sheep's skin on each end, and though only beat with a single stick, and incapable of marking any tune, the negroes seemed delighted with it, and danced in the true African fashions, as if elegance consisted in violent exertions, at the same time, singing as loud as their lungs would permit. Though it was truly rude, it pleased them, while it lasted; but they ceased on being told that salt fish would be served out along with a small allowance of sugar and santa (a kind of shrub), to the pickininy mothers. All were on the alert, in an instant the gumba ceased, and each looked forward for their allowance -- an allowance which to them comes only twice a year. After all had got this quota, the negro men seemed dissatisfied, and on asking them what more they wanted, they entreated to have some rum. Samuels, being averse to see them complaining, gave them and those females who had got none of the santa and sugar, an allowance of rum, with which they retired to the negro huts, happy as any people that ever breathed.

As customary in the country at crop over, a number of the neighbouring overseers, with some of the surgeons and other white people upon the estates, were this day invited to dinner, which was to be followed by a ball. The invitation, as a matter of course, was accepted, and after partaking of a sumptuous feast, with an over-abundance of punch, till the evening was set in, at which time, Apollo, the house-boy, was dispatched to the negro houses, to tell Sammy, and Ajax, and Cudjoe, and Scipio, to come to the Buckra house, and bring their fiddles with them. These four were the best fiddlers upon the estate, and they proved themselves tolerable musicians. They had been expecting that their services would be required, for they were already dressed for the occasion, and accompanied Apollo to the house. This was the signal which the negresses were impatiently awaiting, for all the finery which they possessed, had been put into requisition, and was actually on their backs. They knew there could be no ball without them. They required no special invitation to attend, for all came as fast as they were able, and before the party at the dinner table arose, the hall was nearly filled with black belles, for only four brown beauties graced the plantation. They were attended and followed by a number of the negro men, the sable fops of the estate, in their gala dresses, of which a white neckcloth forms a prominent part.

When the fiddles struck up, the whites left the table, and on choosing their sable partners, the reels commenced. The ladies, nothing loth, never rejected a partner because he had previously danced with others. All Buckras who offered, came alike to them, and all were apparently equally well received. Marley was therefore at no less for partners, when he wished to engage in the dance, although from the floor being rather much crowded, he could not help thinking the toes of damsels were in some danger from the shoes of the Buckras; for with the exception of them, shoes were dispensed with. But it so seldom happened that any heavy Buckra foot trod on their naked toes that the cause of alarm was disregarded, and they seemed to enjoy the passing moments with as much glee as their Massa. And it may be remarked by the way, that none of that prudery was exhibited by them, which so often marks similar assemblies among their fair sisters in this country, each lady being only eager to get into the dance, apparently equally pleased with each partner who offered.

With occasional intermission, to allow their own black countrymen to display their prowess in dancing, the scene continued, till supper called the Buckras from the hall, leaving the floor to themselves.

After supper however, the whites resumed their place in the room, when country dances commenced, in which the negro girls performed their part extremely well. They were very fond of the amusement, and among them there were numbers pretty well dressed, with pleasing countenances, resembling more in features the European than the African, and with the exception of their jet black hue, they would have been accounted tolerably handsome in any country.

While this scene of mirth was going on, the negresses were abundantly supplied with santa, and their sable brethren did not fail in helping themselves to rum and water. And after continuing the dance to an early hour in the morning, during which, however, none of the Buckras reaped much advantage or pleasure from the conversation of their mistresses, although they had Venus, Diana, Cole, Daphne, Little Juno, and others of the famed names of antiquity in the company, the party broke up, when all departed, if not happy, at least well pleased, and thus the black ball terminated.

Thus a few specimens of negro life have been shewn, but another will now offer which will more fully develop the character of the blacks, and shew what kind of a race they are, and whether they or the white planters have been traduced -- but it will perhaps be proper to commence with a new chapter.

Calabash is a poplar name for the gourd-plant grown of an evergreen vine. When hollowed out, it is used as a utensil, for example, bottles, dippers or pipes. The "misspelling" of the gourd-plant (calibash) attests to the limited knowledge and observation of the black race in this account.

CHAPTER IV

NEXT morning, before day broke, the firing or smacking of the driver's whip awakened Marley, when he started from his pillow. Having, overnight, partially received his instructions in the new branch of his duties, he instantly proceeded to the fold, in which the cattle were penned during the night. He counted them as they were driven out, to the number of about one hundred and eighty oxen and mules, and then trudged to the field, where he arrived at the same time with the most early of the negroes. The gang, to which he belonged, consisted of between fifty and sixty, with a driver named Hampden, called the second gang, while in the first there were between eighty and ninety. On calling the roll, Marley found his people and turned out well for the first morning, and he felt pleased that no fault in consequence could be found with them. After remaining for two hours seeing them at work, he left the field for breakfast, and having received it, he went to the hot-house or hospital. From the medicine shop therein, he made up the prescriptions which had been written by the surgeon who had charge of the health of the estate at the time when he made his morning's visit. This done, he saw Rambler, the negro doctor, administer them, but fortunately there were only two or three on the sick list, and these cases were of trifling importance.

Leaving the hot-house, he was accosted by the negro woman who had charge of the poultry, for an allowance of Indian corn for her feathered tribe, and after having satisfied her, he put the key of the corn loft in his pocket, and went to attend the negroes.

On going to the field, the cooks of the gang followed him with breakfast for the people; and on their arrival, the driver fired his whip as a signal for work to stop -- a signal which was instantly obeyed. Their breakfast could scarcely said to be sumptuous, for the most of them had only a piece of yam, with a little lime juice and vegetable pepper sauce. During the half hour allowed for this repast, Marley had no employment, but at the expiry of the stated period, he gave the hint to the driver, who again fired his whip, and the negroes took their places in line. They were employed cleaning a cane plot, that is, hoeing up the weeds, stripping off the under leaves or field trash, and softening the earth and refuse or field trash at the roots of the plants.

Though the soil consisted of rather a tough mould, the labour bestowed by the negroes was only trifling. They were no way forced in the work, and they applied very little strength indeed. The whip was sometimes fired behind them to keep them in line, but seldom did any require to be touched with it. Nay, so far from such being the case, the driver was almost the whole time engaged in chatting and laughing with them who were at work. They were apparently in high spirits, keeping up a continued chorus, in which all engaged, and not a face was to be seen which was not clothed in smiles. This mode of working continued till shell-blow at half-past one by the sun dial, and the moment it was heard, work ceased; every one making the best of their way home -- an example which Marley was not slow in following. As some may not understand the meaning of shell-blow, it may be proper to mention, that it is a continued blast from a large conch shell, cut on one end for the purpose. It furnishes a shrill lasting sound, which is heard at a considerable distance, and it is the signal in general use to warn the negroes of the dinner hour, though a bell is used on some few estates for the same purpose. During the course of the day Marley's modesty frequently caused him to blush, from the negroes of both sexes drawling out to him, in the true Creole drawl -- "Massa, massa, may him go a bush, massa; may him go a bush, mass!"

Marley reached the buckra-house about the same time with the first book-keeper, when they found the carpenter waiting to go and have a glass of grog along with them in the buckra-hall. The refreshment they had some need of, more especially the book-keepers, who had remained in the field under the sun for such a length of time. It quenched their thirst, and partly revived their spirits after the great perspiration they had suffered. Fatigued with this new mode of life, Marley entered his room, to wash and put on fresh clothes, but observing on the table a small book with a scrap of paper on it, he took it up, and, to his amazement, found written on it -- "Keep the rat-book, and see that Homer brings in six rats each day, and when they are brought in, have the tails cut from them. If he fails to do so, report. Give him his hat full of corn every day, and, after it is grinded, see it boiled and the dogs eat it."

Jaded and fatigued, from his exposure to the scorching rays to which he was not yet inured, he felt restless and irritated, and the salvo contained in this new order was not pouring balm of Gilead into his wound. It added fuel to his irritation, and he could not help thinking himself degraded by this new employment. -- "Truly this cannot be borne," exclaimed he, "a man bred at the university of Edinburgh, and intended for the Scottish bar, found only qualified to keep a rat-book -- to see the tails cut from rats, and to watch the feeding of dogs. Had my revered grandfather been alive, what would have been his feelings? Could he have known that his darling child, whom he imagined would one day be qualified to fill with reputation and respect, a seat on the Scottish bench, was only entrusted with the keeping of a rat-book, and the feeding of dogs?" His reflections had not proceeded farther, when the identical Homer made his appearance, accompanied with eight or ten canine companions. His countenance had not the dignified aspect shewn in the busts of his immortal namesake of old, for it was that of an ill-made African negro of the Congo nation, much marked on the face with country scars. He, however, presented six rats, and the bodies being disencumbered of their tails, he asked for the dogs' corn. Marley did not know well how to act, but, like a soldier, he involuntarily marched to the corn loft, gave him his hat full, telling him to grind it and have it boiled before he went to dinner. Homer having promised, he returned to his apartment, half regretting that he had become a book-keeper.

Having made an entry of this very important transaction, he prepared for dinner, previous to which Homer came to him with the prepared mess for the dogs, which Marley saw delivered and speedily devoured by them. During the time the dogs were consuming their allowance Homer was busily engaged in selling his rats to the best advantage, to some negroes who made the purchase in specie -- his day's work yielding him an eighth part of a dollar extra of his allowance. Though Marley had previously heard that the negroes, like the ancient Romans, did eat these ugly vermin, he was skeptical on the point, but seeing it confirmed by positive proof, he could not help thinking he had gone into a land of savages, in place of a much-injured and grievously oppressed race -- injured and oppressed for no other reason but because Providence, in the wise dispensation of its power, had conferred on them a dark hue. He, however, asked a negro girl who had bought part of the game, why she came to eat rats? She exclaimed, "Dey good nyamn for him neger, massa! Him, Sir Charles Price, good nyamn for him neger, massa! Him good as hims hens pickeniny, massa!"

At this time Marley was told dinner waited, when he entered the buckra-house. Shortly after the cloth was removed, he mentioned what he had seen, and enquired if rats were in general eaten by the negroes. Being informed that they were, the overseer remarked, that he could "perceive no reason why rats should not be good eating, though, from our education, we may entertain a disgust of them. Rats in towns are filthy feeding animals, but those fed in cane plots live upon the sugar plant, the most cleanly of all kinds of food; and why then they should not form good eating, I cannot conjecture. But as I never tried a mess of them, I am not a proper judge, and I only once saw a white man commence eating roasted one, (he was a Frenchman) then I fell sick, and had to retire. The Frenchman afterwards declared it was excellent, and that it equaled, if it did not excel, a fine fed tender chicken, or an excellent young rabbit. The negroes, however, who have none of these prejudices of our education to overcome, are very partial to rats, and have denominated them Sir Charles Price, thereby commemorating an event, that otherwise might have descended into oblivion, as I do not at present recollect to have seen it observed in any of the authors who have written respecting this island. Sir Charles Price, it appears, was a great man in the country, at an early period, after our taking it from the Spaniards. In his time, there was a small species of rat, which proved very destructive to the canes, and which was also thought to be very prolific; in addition to which, field mice were very numerous and pretty destructive. This Sir Charles Price had been told that there was a large sized rat on the Mosquito Shore, which was an enemy to every other species of rat, as well as to mice, and though equally destructive as the small one, was said to be less prolific. As a choice of two evils, we are directed to choose the lesser; therefore, to get rid of the mice and small rats which then pestered the colonists, he sent to the Mosquito shore, and had a number of the large ones imported. It answered the expectation in one respect, for it cleared the country, as it is generally supposed, of the small rats, and thinned the field mice; but it has proved equally prolific with those it has exterminated. And should you continue for any length of time a planter, you will have occasion too often to observe the immense devastation in the cane plots, caused by this destructive and widely disseminated race."

During the afternoon, and the early part of the night, a dreadful thunder-storm raged, accompanied with a continued torrent of rain, or more correctly speaking, of a descending sheet of water, which prevented work of any description; and in consequence, to the negroes it was an afternoon of idleness -- work in such weather never being required from them.

The first book-keeper, with the carpenter, having retired to look after some of their own concerns, the overseer desired Marley to wait, as he had some instructions to give. He accordingly did wait, when the former said, that "it was his department to look after the hot- house or hospital -- to keep the keys during the night, and give them to Rambler, the negro doctor, in the morning. The negro boy, Cato, who has been amissing for these some days, during which he has been lurking about the estate, was caught this forenoon, by two of the people, while engaged in robbing one of the negro houses. He is locked in the bilboes, of which Rambler has the key, and when you close the house for the night, see that his feet are firm, for he often contrives to make his escape. He is one of the pests on this property, and he, along with one or two others, give more trouble than the whole. I have been on this estate upwards of ten years, and previous to my arrival, I was informed of his character, which was then equally bad with what it is now, though at this time, he must be upwards of forty years of age. I have tried what severity could do, and I have also tried the effect of lenient measures; -- he has often been flogged; and he has often been sent to the workhouse, and wrought in irons for three months at a time, while he has been more of ten forgive; but still, neither severity nor leniency have induced him to alter his conduct. He has also several times been nearly murdered by the negroes themselves, when caught pillaging from them; but to him nothing will be a warning -- he will neither work, nor will he run into the bush. For his reiterated deeds of theft, in most civilized countries, he would long ere now have lost his life; -- and as the people are continually complaining of his depredations. If he does not escape before Monday, I will send him to the workhouse, with instructions, to give him thirty-nine lashes well laid in, and detain him for three months, during which period, he will cause no trouble to us, besides, he will then be out of harm's way."

He proceeded. "As we grow only a certain quantity of Indian corn, be sparing of it, and give Cleopatra, for the poultry each day, only her basket full of it unshelled. When you come from the field at night, go and see Columbus put the cattle into the penn; keep tally of their number, but you will be put to little trouble in this respect, for Columbus is very attentive. Afterwards see that Bonaparte has brought the sheep and hogs to their pens, and that their number is correct, when you will also give him a basket full of corn, which see the hogs eat, otherwise, some of it will be stolen. At the same time, take notice that Venus, with the pickeniny gang, brings enough of oranges for the pigs. When these are not in season, bid her bring weeds; but the Seville orange is so plentiful upon the estate, that it is probable the sweet orange will be ripe before the bitter is expended, then order her to bring them. And when you have done this, shut the hot-house, taking always care when any are in the stocks, that the lock is fast, for it is rather out of repair." And with these varied instructions, Marley left the buckra house.

With irritated feelings, at having entered upon such a humiliating employment, he sought his own apartment, regardless of the pelting of the rain, the vivid flashes of lightning, or the tremendous peals of thunder sounding in his ears. His pride, or his vanity, was wounded, at being appointed to keep a rat book, to see dogs fed, and hogs fed, and what was equal to all the other degradations, turnkey, and master-at-arms to a negro prison. When he viewed his former life, associating with dashing beaux, and gallanting the fair belles of Edinburgh, contrasted with his present occupation, it appeared to him as if he had fallen from the highest grade in society, into the lowest and the most contemptible. And in such a humour he stepped into the room of his neighbour, the head book-keeper, to enquire whether he had filled such offices.

The book-keeper was taken rather unaware, and a half-blush overcaste his countenance, at being caught by the stranger in familiar chat with a negro girl. Marley made an excuse, but the other interrupting him, said, there was no occasion, for this was only Diana, his sable wife, and on her retiring, Langbey told him that he had a fine girl in his eye, who would answer him well. "No objections," added he, "will I hear, for I know what you will say. It is the same with us all when we first come to the island; but after a little experience, we uniformly fall into the same track, and follow the common custom. Besides, it is of real advantage; for in the event of your being sick, your girl will be the most attentive of nurses, far more so than when can be expected from strangers. Be you advised, and follow the manners of the country, of which you will never repent, and you know the maxim, that when in Rome, we should do as the Pope does." Marley, notwithstanding, was not to be drummed into such a practice, however universal, by arguments, and his aversion to the black colour had not yet subsided so far as to induce him to make choice of any one of the negresses whom he had yet seen. But not wishing to argue on such a subject at this time, especially, as he had come upon another errand, he evaded the proposal with -- "I'll think of it."

He then mentioned the employments the overseer had desired him to perform, when Langbey answered, "Every planter, at his commencement, must go through the same routine, and this routine being common, nobody bestows a thought on it. At the beginning, almost everyone thinks more on the subject than it merits; but when you know the character of the negroes better, you will see the propriety of minutely observing everything -- whatever which is entrusted to them. A strict eye keeps them honest, whereas a lax one would not."

As the day was fast drawing to a close, Marley thought it was time he should proceed to the cattle pen; but the first book-keeper said, that "the overseer did not require such attendance on a wet night, though the most of overseers did not dispense with it." He added, "It would answer for the night, if he gave corn for the pigs, and shut up the hot-house." Marley, in consequence, did not go to the cattle pen; but he supplied Bonaparte with corn, and after seeing it mostly consumed by the porkers under his charge, he went and saw that Cato was fast in the bilboes -- locked the door, took the keys to his room, and thus finished his first field day.

Next morning, at the first appearance of light, Marley was at the cattle pen, and saw the whole cattle driven out, after which he returned home, having previously to leaving his room, given the keys of the hot-house to Rambler. This being negro day, or the day allotted to the negroes to work for themselves, there was no work done upon the estate. It was nearly an idle day to Marley, for he had no other duties to perform, than supplying medicines to the sick, corn to the poultry, corn to the dogs, and corn to the hogs, to see that all the large cattle were driven into their pens at night, to see that none of the sheep or hogs were amissing, and to see that the dogs and hogs were not cheated of their allotted share of corn. And this day of idleness was concluded, with seeing Cato fast in the bilboes, the door locked, and the keys deposited in his chamber.

At breakfast, Mr. Samuels remarked that a neighbouring overseer would be on the estate in the course of the forenoon, with a fine horse, which he wished to part with, but not under 70. Marley said, that if the animal was worth the money, and pleased him, he would not stand upon the sum, and accordingly, sometime before dinner, the horse was brought. It seemed a fine looking animal, and Samuels having spoken in its favour, in which he was echoed by several overseers who were present, Marley bought it; after which, he found he was better mounted than any of the white people upon the estate. Many would say, there was little prudence shewn in thus sporting with a considerable part of his funds, for the sake of shew, seeing, that his year's salary would not amount to so much; but Marley, like most young men, was vain, and vanity must be paid for.

Samuels having invited the overseers to stop to dinner, they acceded, forming altogether a pretty large party. The cloth was no sooner removed than the usual invectives against the Wilberforce party were poured out, not only because they entertained an inveterate hatred towards these innovators, as the supposed cause of their want of success in the island, but because there was an elderly gentleman present, who decidedly differed in opinion from them. This gentleman had passed the greater portion of his life in the parish; but feeling a strong desire to revisit his native country and his relations, had been absent for two or three years, and had only recently returned. While in Britain, it seems he had imbibed some of the doctrines of the abolitionists, for with his notions, none of the overseers would agree. And as his opinions of the effects of the abolition, are somewhat different from what the great part of the Jamaica men entertain, we will endeavor to give them as nearly as possible in his own words.

"Gentlemen, in my opinion, the abolition of the slave trade has benefited the West Indians in a very material manner, though only some few among us will admit the fact. It has, however, done so in a most incalculable degree, in so far as it has prevented planters from ruining themselves and their families by the purchase of imported negroes, to embark in wild speculations, of brining in new sugar ground or forming coffee mountains whenever a transitory rise in price of these commodities took place. The abolition has prevented this, and you must all admit that the markets are already glutted with the produce of the sugar islands, and there is no appearance of this overabundance ceasing while the political affairs of the world remain in a state of tranquility. This overabundance, therefore, must inevitably have been considerably greater, had daily importations of new cargoes of negroes been allowed. The consequences would have been that the circumstances of the West Indians, which are bad enough at present, would have been rendered considerably worse from this cause. The sugar planters, therefore, ought to rejoice that they were thwarted in their endeavours to continue the slave trade, when the alternative now, would have been the utter ruin of vast numbers of them.

"But the abolition of this trade has had an evil effect in Jamaica, which does not seem to have been contemplated by many, when that measure was carried into a law; and this effect has been felt in a very general degree. It has destroyed that portion of the people, who are denominated in England, the middle classes of society, and with the slight exception of the professional and mercantile interest, the inhabitants of this country are now divided, only into rich and poor. The middle classes, whether white or brown, have gradually verged towards poverty. They have been compelled to part with their negroes to enable them to pay their debts and colonial taxes -- debts contracted in consequence of their being possessed of too few servants, to carry on any profitable concern to advantage. These servants have been eagerly purchased by the great landed proprietors; and one of the consequences of the abolition act has been, to put into the hands of the wealth planters, nearly the whole of the slaves, to the impoverishment and destruction of a numerous and valuable portion of the community. And from the nature of things, the same cause still operating, the time is not very far distant, when these landed proprietors will be the only slave owners in the island.

"As a proof of this, we have only to look to the increase of pauperism, even among the whites, more especially of the females and children who are receiving parish support. The assessment for the poor's rates is already beginning to be felt; and it is probable it will become still heavier, in proportion as the people become less able to pay it, similar to what occurred in England, or what may happen in any country where the same system of poor laws is in operation."

Marley having then occasion to retire, to attend to his duties, had not an opportunity of hearing the other overseers' opinions on the subject; but as the consisted chiefly of invectives, as he afterwards learned, it was of no consequence, and they would have been unworthy of being detailed.

Next morning being Sunday, Mr. Langbey wished Marley to ride with him on a visit to an overseer, with whom he had once been a brother book-keeper. The latter acceded, and after performing his morning's work and taking a hasty breakfast, in about two hours afterwards, he was introduced to Mr. Fitzhughes, the overseer on Equity Hall. Marley felt a little surprised, never conjecturing that Water Melon Valley was so near the place where his father first saw the light. But he was prudent enough to make no enquiries, being desirous to learn casually as much as he could. After quenching their thirst, Langbey and he entered upon the discussion of old stories, with which the day probably would have passed, had not Marley expressed a wish to see the estate. The overseer instantly agreed when mounting their horses they took a turn through the grounds.

Passing along, an elegant mansion arose on their view, which Fitzhughes said, contained the most beautiful girl in the island, when Langbey, laughingly ask, pray, "is she black or brown?" "Neither, neither," exclaimed the overseer, "pure white and red, and besides too, she is one of the richest heiresses in Jamaica." He observed, "perhaps we may have the pleasure of seeing her, for her father, along with her, went over this morning to Happy Fortune; and if you please we will ride that way, when probably we may have the good luck to get a glimpse of her." The party rode on, till Marley saw the dwelling which should have been his, but from its distance, he could only perceive that it was one of those stately and strong mansions, which occasionally meet the eye in Jamaica. The appearance of the house, with the numerous cane plots around, proclaimed that the estate was a valuable one, and Marley's heart palpitated with joy, on thinking that one day it would be his. He, however, concealed the secret in his own breast; and in order that he might have more opportunities of visiting on the property, he sought to gain the intimacy of Mr. Fitzhughes, by rendering himself agreeable to him. In part, he succeeded, for the overseer was very attentive, and on the depature of the book- keepers, he accompanied them part of the way, and before returning, he insisted on their visiting him often. This was promised, and Marley was certain he would not fail in keeping his promise, whatever his companion might do.

Before sunset, they reached their home, and were in sufficient time for Marley to see the cattle into the pen and the hogs fed. Afterwards, on entering the hot-house, he found Cato had gotten a bilboe mate along with him in the stocks, of the name Gulliver. On enquiring at Rambler what meritorious action had entitled him to this situation, the black Doctor said, "Massa, him, Gulliver, kill and nyamn him buckra house big white cat." "What, eat a cat?" exclaimed Marley, "Yes massa, him, Gulliver, kill and nyamn all hims buckra's cats, but him black Tommy." Seeing the prisoners secure, he retired, and, in a short time, he was called to supper.

After the meal was finished, the overseer acquainted the white people that Gulliver had killed the white cat, sometime throughout the night, when it was his spell to keep watch in the yard, and had afterwards eaten it. "The skin has been found in his house, along with the skins of several others, from which it appears he has been the scoundrel who has destroyed our cats, which accounts for their going amissing for this sometime back; till now, with the exception of the black one, we have none in the house, the consequence of which is, we are like to be eaten out with rats and mice. This must be put a stop to, and Gulliver's appetite taught to relish other kind of food, than the cats upon the property. And I am much inclined to think it has not been out of any favour to us that he has spared the life of the remaining one, but he has done so from prejudice towards its colour; for I never yet heard of an instance where a black cat fell a prey to the negroes' desire of cats flesh."

Next morning Marley was awakened out of a dream of delight, in which he fancied himself the proprietor of Happy Fortune Sugar Estate and Conch Shell Penn; but unfortunately it was not by the reality, but by the firing of the driver's whip. He started from his bed, but day had not yet glimmered from the east. He was stepping into it again, when a tap on his lattice caused him to open his door, when he was saluted with, "Good morning, massa," from Doctor Rambler, as well as from three or four of the drivers, and some two or three of the people. He gave Rambler the keys, and slipped on his clothes. By the time he went out, he saw his morning's company around the steps of the buckra-house, with Gulliver in their presence. The house door was then opening and the overseer issued out on the steps. As he seemed to be aware that the negroes don't like "speakee and floggee too," he, without any circumlocution or waste of words, ordered Gulliver to be laid down, and to receive thirty-nine well laid in. This was promptly complied with his trowsers unbuttoned. When two of the people, seizing him by the arms, put him down, two others did him a similar favour, by catching hold of his feet, stretching him to his length, and keeping him firm. Cicero, the head driver, then commenced his part of the operation, with his whip upon poor Gulliver's bare posteriors. Gulliver was not stoic, for at the first stroke, (which was so well laid in that it did credit to Cicero, as a master of the whip), he sung out for mercy. But the flogging continued, and the blood flowed, without any attention to his writhings and cries of -- "Gor Amighty bless him, massa! Oh, forgib him, poor neger, massa, and him bad neger neber more, massa! Oh, massa, massa, forgib him, poor neger, massa, and him bad neger neber more, massa!" These exclamations, however, might as well have been directed to the whip as the overseer, for the flogging only ceased when Cicero had laid in thirty-nine lashes -- this number being the ultimatum which the overseer had the power to inflict. Gulliver was, notwithstanding, less cut and hurt than might have been expected, from the heaviness of the whip and the skill of Cicero in using it; for the punishment had no sooner ceased than Gulliver adjusted his trowsers, and, without a word being said, ran away to the negro huts, and was in the field before numbers of the other negroes.

After Marley had enumerated the cattle, he proceeded to the field, in charge of both gangs for the ensuing week, the first book-keeper requiring to keep spell in the still-house to finish the rum crop. Two drivers, Cicero and Hampden, were in attendance, and the whips were occasionally brandished, and pretty often used, though in no way materially to hurt the negroes. There was no laying down, nor was there any bare part of the body struck, and the day passed in this manner till shell-blow called them from the field.

When the time allotted for dinner was elapsed, Marley was early with the gangs, but the overseer, following rapidly after him, was there nearly at the same time. But the negroes having turned out pointedly to the hour, he said nothing to them, but cautioned the book- keeper not to be sparing in reporting those who were at any time late; a promise which Marley gave, but which he had no intention of ever performing. The Busha, as the people called him, attended for about half an hour, then mounted his mule, and rode away to a neighbouring estate, his boy holding on by its tail and running after.

When the sun set work was over, and the negroes went home, none of them seemed any way exhausted or fatigued with their day's toil. Nay, even Gulliver, who had been punished, wrought as well, sung as merrily as any of the others. Their work could scarcely be said to be very laborious; for with the hoe, they made a very shallow impression indeed, so much so, that in place of calling what they did hoeing, it would be more correct to say, that they only scratched the soil, and that, anything but deep. Their comforts too were not forgotten, for there were two women, water carriers, employed in bringing pails or large buckets of water to them throughout the day. But from the negroes' antipathy to pure water, Marley, though he many times felt very thirsty, could receive no advantage from the muddy water which they relished, and which inconsequence was brought to them from ponds, though there was abundance of fine spring water upon the estate. Their preference for muddy water, as they themselves stated, arises from the very just consideration that, in such a state, it contains more substance than when it is pure -- a fact no doubt which must be confessed, but, that it is equally wholesome, admits of much dispute.

The work passed much in the same way as the day above detailed. The people wrought in the manner they were required, without almost the slightest coercion; as for punishments, there was no other than the one that has been mentioned. Every person seemed pleased and satisfied, singing throughout the whole time they were working; and the drivers were more their companions, than their superiors and chastisers, the whip being more frequently brandished over them in just, than in earnest.

During one of the days of the week, Marley assisted in giving out clothing to the negroes of all ages and sexes for the year ensuing, rather more than the prescribed quantity in the act of the colonial legislature was furnished. It consisted of the coarse linen called osnaburgs, and a kind of blue baize, or coarse woolen cloth. Each male and female also received a man's hat, with a handkerchief, and a clasp knife; the head men, or those who were entrusted with any charge received a jacket of strong woolen cloth. He also attended and served the negroes their weekly allowance of herrings, the head men receiving most, and the scale gradually descending in numbers, till the child at the breast who was allowed two. And none of them had occasion to complain of the want of salt. That article, with brine to those who wanted it was being supplied to them in such quantities as they required from the pickle in which the herrings were preserved.

Saturday being negro day, the two book-keepers, mounted on mules, rode to the mountain, where the provision grounds were situated, for the purpose of observing the state of cultivation, which the negroes were making for subsisting themselves and their families. It was between eight and nine miles distant from the estate, and the ride to it was mostly delightfully romantic. Though after leaving the cultivated country behind, it was sometimes fearfully dangerous, when the track lay over narrow foot-paths on the brink of tremendous precipices. To those unaccustomed to such scenes in a mountainous region, these passes teem with danger, for had the mule made a false step, the animal with its rider would be hurled over the precipice into the chasm below, when instant destruction would be the inevitable consequence. The ascent was in general, gradual. In some few places, however, where the rugged rock was destitute of soil, the path was like proceeding up steps, and in other places down them, but the sure-footed mules being left to themselves, after looking for a moment, as if to consider how they would proceed, stepped either up or down in safety as the circumstances required.

The after-part of the ride was romantically grand. All nature at the feet of the travelers was smiling in the rich and diversified foliage of a tropical climate, on a virgin soil; while onwards towered "the bush," but a bush which surpasses the forests of every other country without the tropics, in the loftiness of the trees, and the strength of their trunks. The mountain palm, the most towering of the vegetable kingdom, with its gradually tapering colonnade crowned with an umbrella of dark green, claims the pre-eminence over its race for its beauty and height; and yet with all these claims at admiration, it is only a cabbage tree. Here also the lofty cedar, the immense silk cotton tree, and the famed mahogany, with many others, grace this view of nature's works, for the hand of man has scarcely yet been exerted on this part of the forest. On entering farther into the bush, the wall of fibres, impenetrable to man without fire or the axe, rivets his attention; and he is lost in wonder how the humble rattan is enabled to form such a barrier. This parasite claims support from other trees, and when once it has fixed its situation, contiguous to any large one, it springs up and ascend, till it reaches a resting place on a branch. When feeling it can gain no higher exaltation, it bends over, as if endued with instinct, and grows downwards till it reaches mother earth. Here, again, it assumes anew root, again and again ascends and descends, till its further progress is terminated by the extremity of the branch. It wisely, however, does not leave its supporter, but clings to it still, and since its farther progress outwards is no longer available, it retraces its steps, till the trunk bars it in proceeding farther, when it again commences its route outwards till the termination of its support. And then it again returns, and this progress outwards and inwards it continues till it forms a natural wall. But, like other parasites, it proves the destruction of its supporter, though unlike those of the world, it clings to it to the last, and with it shares its fall and its degradation.

In the course of the ride over the cleared path in the mountains, the book-keepers were often greeted by the watchmen of the negro grounds belonging to estates contiguous to Water Melon Valley, but no other negroes were to be seen but those watchmen, and the negroes of the latter estate. This was caused in consequence of the proprietors, whose provision grounds lay contiguous, agreeing to have different days in the week allotted to the negroes for working their grounds. It was done to prevent the people from coming into contact with each other, and misspending their time in idle talk, in preference to cultivating their gardens.

The negroes are so polite, not only towards white people, but among themselves, that no two of them can meet without the most ceremonious bows and curtsies, and shaking of hands, with "Good morning Missa Dolly," and "Good morning, Massa Wuashie, and him hopes him hab good sleep." Quashie, not to be behind hand makes the same enquiry at Missa Dolly, and asks, "How do Massa Jupiter, and young Missa Venus, and young Missa Quasheba, and young Massa Captain, and de pickeniny?" Missa Dolly answers, "dat him all, ebery one well, him dank him," and then "him hopes dat Missa Daphne is bery well, and dat young Massa Shakespeare, and young Missa Clementina, and de pickeniny are all, ebery one well." After these mutual salutations, a long thread of enquiries follow, which require time to be made and answered; and so much news have they to tell, and to be told, that in the hearing and the telling, great part of the day would be lost to their own hurt.

To proceed, the book-keepers reached the buckra mountain house in rather less than two hours, and shortly afterwards they got the watchman to prepare some coffee, with herrings and plantains, for breakfast.

The negro grounds belonging to Water Melon Valley are extensive, but the axe had made very little havoc among the trees. The mountain house was small, consisting only of one apartment formed of shingles, situated in the midst of the bush, being surrounded on every side with the lofty trees of the forest. In its immediate neighbourhood, and as an ornament, the negro watchman had constructed his crude hut after the primeval fashion, and thatched it with the leaves of the plantain tree; but as it suited his convenience and pleased him, no one was dissatisfied with the contrast.

The mountain ground consisted of steep hill and dale, interspersed with natural growing wood. From the large trunks of trees which had fallen down impeding the route, it was a fatiguing day's work to visit the whole of the negro gardens, or the grounds in which the people grow provisions for their support. Marley, in going the round, unsuspectingly leaped upon a large trunk of a fallen tree, which had outwardly every appearance of being sound, but to his surprise, he sunk above his knees in a mass of dust, to the amusement of his companion. This initiatory step made him more cautious afterwards; and now that he had become free of the bush, he was determined to afford sport to no others, by venturing his weight upon the fallen trunks of trees, however sound they might look.

Traversing the mountain in every direction where gardens were, they found some few of the negroes cultivating for themselves, but the grounds of may were vacant, the owners having failed to take advantage of the day allotted for them to work for their own behoof. The gardens, as may easily be conceived, were of all descriptions. Those in the hands of the industrious well-behaved families were in excellent condition. They had growing upon them plantains, bananas, yams, eddoes, sweet potatoes, melons, pine apples, Indian corn, and tobacco, besides many things of the less moment. Some few, also, were in tolerable order; but many, and those held by the worst class of negroes, were in a deplorable condition; overgrown with weeds, thereby most distinctly shewing they belonged to the sluggards.

No two gardens, so far as Marley observed, were situated contiguous to each other. Large spaces between them always intervened, and although there was no lack of land, the largest garden occupied a small space indeed, not containing in whole anything like half an acre of land. Yet from this small space, those families who were industrious raised more provisions than they required, leaving to themselves a considerable overplus for sale.

The mountain land, in this part of the forest, consists of a deep rich black virgin mould and it is very seldom that their crops ever fail, or are destroyed by storms. And from the little work requisite upon a soft soil, a single negro, if industrious, might easily enough raise, with fifty days' toil in the year, more provisions than would supply himself and a dozen others. But in all tropical climates where there is abundance of soil and moisture, the earth yields so spontaneously, that the smallest exertion of labour produces far more than is requisite for the wants of man, in a semi-barbarous, or a half civilized state. And without fear of contradiction, this is the principle cause of the indolence and want of exertion, which uniformly displays itself in the character of the inhabitants of such tropical countries, there being no stimulus of adequate strength, among an uncultivated race, sufficient to excite them to farther exertion, than that of procuring a mere subsistence.

On the book-keepers returning to the mountain house, they were met by Jupiter and Quashie, accompanied with several others. Jupiter complained that Quashie had entered upon the possession of a spot of ground which had belonged to, or had been occupied by, his mother Peggy. Quashie, on the other hand, contended that the ground had been laying waste for a number of years, and that he and his wife, Belvidera, had begun to cultivate it, considering that it only belonged to Massa. But on Jupiter and his wife, Kate asserting that they were now to plant it along with their own, it was adjudged to belong to them; and Quashie and Belvidera were told to be content with their own grounds, or seek some other spot which was not possessed, which might please them better. And thus this judicial proceeding terminated.

Having made a second breakfast on some little provision they had brought with them, they returned to the Valley, and were home rather before the dinner hour.

On Sunday, a number of overseers from the estates around met at the buckra-house to breakfast, and afterwards, a match of quoits was played by them, to decide a bet which had been for some time pending. Although Marley was not over scrupulous nor bigoted in religious matters, his feelings were hurt at seeing all the precepts of his religious instruction violated in this manner. And he could not help condemning in his own mind such a mode of behavior; but his prudence taught him he would act unwisely, if he allowed his scruples to be perceived, and that he would be laughed at, if he should pretend to act the part of a censor in such company.

CHAPTER V

THE following week commenced in the same manner as the one preceding. Marley continued to work both gangs, while the first book-keeper attended the still-house. About the middle of it, however, he had an opportunity of visiting the parish town, along with the overseer and the carpenter. Langbey had been left upon the estate, as it is not customary for all the white people to be absent at the same time. There was to be a grand review of the parish militia, by his Grace the Duke of Manchester, and an officer of high rank in the regulars; and Marley accompanied the overseer for the purpose of enrolling himself as a soldier in the parish regiment, in order to save deficiency upon the estate. That is, Water Melon Valley, from the number of the negroes upon it, required in terms of law to have four white men in the militia, or otherwise to pay for each person deficient, an annual fine of 50; but this was no hardship on Marley's part, for, at any rate, he would have been obliged to serve. Although he had not been upon any estate, every free man who enters the island for the purpose of remaining, being compelled to enter into the militia -- the choice of the company in which he may serve being the only choice left to him.

Mounting their horses they set off; the overseer and the carpenter, being followed by negro boys on mules carrying their accoutrements and arms. They overtook numbers of people on the road, and some overtook them, followed in the same manner by their boys, till by the time they reached the town, the cavalcade was pretty strong, consisting of overseers, surgeons, book-keepers, carpenters, smiths, masons, and coopers, with their brown and sable attendants. Our party having left their horses in a tavern yard, (inns being so called), they breakfasted in the tavern in company with a very motley group. But all men, of whatever rank or professions, or trades, (except perhaps those in the very highest) if only white, are nearly upon a par, and of the same caste in the island.

At parade time, Marley entered this name in a certain company of infantry; but having no uniform prepared, he was excused for this day from joining the ranks. To pass a little idle time, therefore, till the regiment was in motion, he made a call upon his first friend, Mr. Graceson, but he in like manner was engaged in his military capacity, and was upon the parade ground. There being nothing to attract his attention in this quarter, he bent his steps towards the militia, where he saw the bustle and confusion attendant upon the muster of an unpaid corps. When all were in order, he followed them in their march; and when he observed the regiment formed into line, he could not help thinking he never say a finer body of men in regimentals, even in his own country. The centre company consisted of free blacks, two companies of free coloured people flanked them, and they in their turn being flanked by the whites, formed altogether a novel military spectacle. The white body of artillery on the flanks of all, with the cavalry occasionally covering the one gun or the other, gave them a warlike appearance; and it is probable if they were called into action, they would not be a contemptible force, especially, as the great part of them are inured to the climate. They went through their evolutions in a very tolerable manner, and though the raw recruit is at once placed into the line without undergoing any preparatory training, no confusion in consequence ensued, although there must have been many in the ranks who had never mustered before. In performing the various m anoeuvres required from them, none of that stiffness or automation-like motion which the regulars are taught to exhibit was perceptible. In short, the militia in their movements appeared more like men, without displaying any awkwardness or confusion, than the machine-like movements of the regulars permitted them to do. And their firing, whether it was in files, or from right to left, or vice versa, or from the whole line, was in no way inferior to that of the best trained regulars.

They were kept a considerable time upon the field, and although the sea-breeze was late of setting-in that morning, and consequently the day was very warm, the men did not seem to feel incommoded so much as Marley was led to expect, especially, as the heat to his feelings was infinitely greater on the parade ground than it was in the country.

After running his eye over the whole line times without number, the cavalry was the corps which attracted the most of his attention, and he was dissatisfied he had made his election for the infantry, where he would form only one among the motley mass, in place of into the small but dashing line of horsemen. In consequence he wished to become one of them, as their appearance bespoke them to be in general, the most respectable portion of the parish as a corps. What qualities were requisite to enable him to enter into this company he did not know; but he was determined to learn, and when the dismissal took place, he accordingly followed his overseer to the tavern for that purpose. On enquiry, he found it was only requisite to make affidavit that he possessed a horse of the value of 60 or 70, and though there were some other requisites in regard to income, the latter were often dispensed with. Having already such a horse, he expressed his intention of entering into that corps, in preference to the company in which he had enrolled his name. Samuels, however, made some demur, on the ground that there was not a book-keeper in the corps, neither had he ever heard of one being admitted; but, before applying to the captain for his approbation, he would advise him to consult with Mr. Graceson, for a repulse, he said would be worse than death. Accordingly, they walked to the store of that gentleman, whom they found busily engaged -- all muster-days being with these store gentry, the times in which they transact the greatest portion of their retail business. He, notwithstanding, accosted them and expressed himself glad at again meeting with Marley, at the same time inviting them into his house to take second breakfast.

Samuels then acquainted that gentleman with the nature of Marley's wish, and his own fears that it might not be complied with; when Mr. Graceson at once said, he would easily overcome any objection on that head. He requested them to wait for a few minutes till he had dispatched some business, on doing which he would accompany them to the captain and have him entered, because as he expressed himself, he liked to see a young man of spirit. But the overseer having occasion to consult the attorny for the estate, could not stay; and after Marley had sat for some time, Graceson entered, stating he was ready when they set off to seek this re-doubted captain, whom it seemed the overseer felt delicate in meeting. During the walk that gentleman observed, "these overseers think there is nobody like them; and although Mr. Samuels is rather a superior sort of a man, yet, by associating nearly always with this class of people, it is in no way surprising, that he should have imbibed some of their narrow opinions; and I am equally aware, that in consequence, he was unwilling to be seen in this business, fearing that he might get the ill-will of his neighbouring overseers for interfering. It will," continued he, "be galling to many of the overseers already in the company, to perceive a book-keeper among them, and doubly galling to those who have to carry halberts or muskets, the one-half of whom at least look upon book-keepers as a species very little raised above the negro, although many of the book-keepers are superior to them in every respect, except that of having the same power. Let them vent their spleen, however, as they will. Their weight with the attornies is not near so great as they themselves imagine, and their situation is equally precarious with that of those under them."

At this conclusion they reached the temporary abode of the captain while in the town; and Mr. Graceson being welcomed, sangaree was ordered, even before the latter had time to present Mr. Marley. While the sangaree was preparing, our youth was presented in form as a particular friend, and as a gentleman by birth and education, who had taken a liking to serve in his corps and under his command. "But," adds he, "Mr. Samuels, his overseer, has stated as an objection, that, because he is a book-keeper he will not be allowed to become a horseman, notwithstanding his horse cost him more than the statutory sum. What say you, captain?" "Why," returns he, after taking a strong look of Marley, "if these overseers had their own way, what would they have, I would wish to know? They are overseers to-day and may be book-keepers to-morrow; and may not a book-keeper of to-day be an overseer to- morrow? And where pray is the mighty difference between them? No, no; an opinion of an overseer shall never sway with me, and you my young friend shall ride in my company since you desire it. I will shew them that a book-keeper is entitled to as much respect as any overseer of them all; and as you will be the youngest in the troop, you will be more especially under my protection."

With this, the sangaree was brought in and the glasses being filled, Captain Singleton, after pledging Mr. Graceson, desired to know the name of his recruit, when our young gentleman answered, "Marley." "Marley!" repeated he, as if surprised. "Yes Sir, Marley." "Yes Sir, Marley is my name." After a short pause, as if feeling some stranger to his mind had then recurred to him, Singleton went on, "Marley was once a famed name in this parish; but the family must now be extinct, otherwise M'Fathom must have been called to account long ago." He then pledged Marley, saying, "for the sake of your name you shall always be dear to me." The glasses being emptied, the Captain addressed himself to Mr. Graceson -- "You no doubt will have heard of old Mr. Marley who bore such a hatred to attornies that he never would associate with them." "I have often heard of him," answered Mr. Graceson, "but he died about the time I came to the island, and at a period when I was stranger in these parts; but I recollect he was then universally regretted." "That he was," continued Mr. Singleton; "he was the making of many of the now rich families in this and the neighbouring parishes, and even of M'Fathom himself, who, as the old gentleman's executor, retains the estates of Happy Fortune and Conch Shell Penn. The worthy gentleman took a fancy to me when I arrived in the island, without money and without friends, and placed me as a book-keeper on Happy Fortune. He then took me by the hand and never once let it go while he lived. No overseer there dared to tyrannise over the book-keepers. The old gentleman wished us to be happy, and he made us so. His kindness did not stop here, nor did it end in giving us good advice only, for he also endeavoured to get us forward in the world. He acted as a father to me when I commenced clearing Singleton Hall, and often when I was on the eve of despairing to effect it, being not only short of money, but also weak handed. He cheered me on, saying, that while I was industrious, he would carry me through. And this he did. He saw me prosperous before his death; but why he did not leave me his executor, seeing that in general I acted as his private amanuensis, and in me he confided many secrets, I have no means of knowing, except perhaps he thought me too young. Be this as it may, he expired in my arms, praying that I would not see his son wronged when he came to the island; but he never came -- and although it was rumoured that the young man had been married, and had left a son behind him, at the time he sailed in the fatal ship which never reached her port. It has not been ascertained, and probably it was unfounded. M'Fathom has enjoyed his property ever since; but what surprised me most of all at the time, was that Mr. Brotherton gave him his daughter in marriage, aware as he must have been of the equivocal nature of M'Fathom's conduct, in regard to the property of his friend Marley."

Some more sangaree being drank, he proceeded. "I hear that Mr. Brotherton, about fourteen for fifteen days hence, intends to celebrate his jubilee and that in old Mr. Marley's mansion. Whether or not I shall be invited time will tell. If I should, however, it will be the second jubilee I have witnessed in that house." And after a little farther conversation on general topics, Mr. Graceson and Marley made their bows, and returned to the house of the former, well pleased with the success of their mission.

During the walk, Marley was informed that "Mr. Singleton was proprietor of a large sugar estate called Singleton Hall; that he was much respected throughout the country, and looked up to by all classes with affection. He has said he will be your friend, and you may rely upon him; but, as I am the oldest acquaintance you have in the colony, you must recollect that I am to be the first to whom the test of friendship is to be put, if you should ever require it, which however I hope you never will. If you are displeased with your present situation, and wish some other, you have only to mention the word, and if possible, I will try to gratify you; but a matter of this kind I do not consider as an act of friendship, but merely as one of those trifling troubles to which people are put every day, without afterwards bestowing a thought on the subject."

When they entered the house, Mr. Samuels was waiting to learn the issue of the visit, and it could easily be observed, that he was not only surprised, but also a little chagrined, that his book-keeper should have got into the same corps with himself. He expresses his pleasure, however, but as a number of gentlemen then entered, the subject was broken off, and immediately afterwards a glass of wine and bitters was handed round as a whet to force a good appetite for dinner.

After a late dinner, the overseer with his book-keeper went to the tavern mounted their horses and accompanied by the carpenter who had been waiting for them proceeded homewards. On the road Samuels enquired of Marley what sort of a reception Captain Singleton had given to him, and being told that it was kind in the extreme, he expressed his surprise at it. "Did he not tell you, that a book-keeper's income was too limited to bear the expenses requisite for a trooper, or even to support him with decency." "No," said Marley, "he never mentioned it -- he merely said, I would attend first muster day. And so far from being displeased, he rather seemed pleased, and, as I at the time thought, he considered I acted correctly." On which Samuels remarked, "He must have been in a curious humour at the time, for to my own knowledge he often tries to dissuade overseers from entering into the corps, because it is so expensive. It is a pity, however," continued he, "you did not consider the subject better; for, should you ever be out of a place, few if any overseers will employ a book-keeper who belongs to the troop." To this Marley carelessly relied, "I hope I never shall have to go about soliciting employment, but trust to remain stationary," and some people joining them, the conversation dropped.

During the ride, Marley's attention was engrossed by reflections upon the discourse of Mr. Singleton; of his averred affection for old Mr. Marley, and of his knowledge of the conduct of M'Fathom; but he could not help feeling startled at the circumstance of Mr. Singleton's never asking him a single question respecting his parentage. A question which Marley very naturally asking him a single question respecting his parentage. A question which Marley very naturally thought would have been among the first he would have put, especially, as he surmised that an heir to his old friend Marley might be in existence; whom if he was, he knew was unjustly deprived of his property. Such conduct puzzled him much, and even caused him to doubt the sincerity of Mr. Singleton. In course of time, however, he learned that it was not considered very decorous to put such questions to strangers, particularly, as many of the people who seek an asylum in the colonies, would not feel it pleasant to enter into details, of which some might not redound to their credit.

A little after dark the party reached Water Melon Valley, and after a hasty supper retired to rest.

Marley, when he had the opportunity of a few moments' reflection upon the occurrences of the day, hoped he was not so destitute of support as he imagined; but words, he knew were too often only intended to convey some trifling act of friendship at most, and often nothing more than the compliment of the moment. Although he had never met with many disappointments himself, he had been taught, that to rely upon promised, especially promised from persons in no manner of way interested in his welfare, would end in regret and discomfiture. Knowing how much he had at stake, and the wealth of the man who withheld from him his right, he was afraid to trust the secret of his birth and of his claims to such strangers, whom his appearance prepossessed in their favour, without more substantial grounds for believing, that they were actually willing and able to befriend him. To enter into the legal lists of opposition with such a man as M'Fathom, few in the parish, even in a just cause and for their own benefit, but would dread, and how could be, a stranger, request such a favour? Without setting common sense at defiance, he found it would be impossible to make any such request, and on revolving the matter in his mind, he was obliged to conclude, that all which he could reasonably expect, would be advice how to act; yet, in what manner to proceed, without pecuniary assistance, the most essential of all aids, perplexed him greatly.

At all events, he considered the first and most expedient step he ought to take should be the recovery of the writings, from the place where they had been secretly deposited in the mansion house on Happy Fortune. How he might procure access to the house for such a purpose, presented a stumbling-block which he could not get over till the jubilee, which was to be celebrated there, reverted to his recollection. He imagined, that if he could by any means procure admission, he might then undiscovered, amidst the bustle and confusion incident on the occasion, carry his project into execution. To procure an invitation was an equally perplexing difficulty; but as the only resource which he had to overcome it, he determined to ride over to Equity Hall on Sunday, and learn how matter were proceeding, and whether the overseer might not be able to procure him an introduction to this same jubilee. While engaged in planning schemes of this nature, the powers of Somnus set his faculties at rest.

The usual sounds from the report of the whip, aroused him from sleep and sent him to perform the irksome monotonous routine of the day. He went through it however, till at last, negro-day came, without anything occurring that deserves to noted. Punishments, there were none. There were no prisoners in the bilboes, and no sick in the hot-house.

Negro-day was an idle one, which Marley in part devoted to writing an epistle to his friend Campbell, containing an account of his situation, and of his adventures since they parted; at the same time, praying for a return of a similar sort without delay. While thus engaged, and before he had finished, he was interrupted by a rather strange sort of application, from an elderly negro woman accompanied by a young negro girl about sixteen or seventeen years of age, who she said was her daughter, requesting Marley to take this young girl for his wife -- the girls who live with the white people being so called. Without assigning any cause, he declined this obliging offer, but seeing that the mother and daughter were disappointed and chagrined, he made a trifling present to the girl, with which they went away apparently pleased, leaving him at liberty to finish his letter.

The overseer had not reverted to the cavalry concern after the party returned from the review; but did not make any alteration in his mode of treating his second book-keeper. On dinner being over, and the party about to retire, Marley requested that he would shew him the sword exercise of the troop, and explain to him the different words of command. Without the slightest reluctance he agreed and went through the whole of it in such a manner as shewed that he was a tolerably good swords-man. Marley then went through the same exercise, when the overseer smiled, and said, "I observe you have got lessons before this time and are so well versed in them, that if you manage your horse as well as you manage the sword, there will not be many superior to you in the corps." And on his desiring an explanation on how he came to acquire such exercise, Marley acquainted him, that he had lived in the neighbourhood of a calvary barracks till he had come to the island, where he had been in the practice of observing cavalry at drill and on parade. By this means, he had acquired a little instruction in the use of the sword, and the manoeuvers of the cavalry. The overseer rejoined. "Since you had such opportunities of seeing cavalry, you need give yourself no alarm about entering among us, for you will understand the drill better than many who have rode for a length of time in the troop."

Not altogether satisfied with this declaration, Marley thought it would do him no harm, to get the different words of command and the evolutions consequent on them, in writing; and having occasionally seen a book-keeper upon the adjoining estate, who had been a trooper in his youth, and a deserter as was generally believed from the regulars, he determined upon getting some information from him. Accordingly he sought an opportunity of speaking to him. But wishing to prevent this book-keeper, from thinking he had come expressly to him for instruction on military tactics, he entered upon common chat, till the man really thought he had only come to see his gang, for he exclaimed, "So, our overseer says, you have entered into the troop. You have displeased the overseers around, and trust, they'll jostle and try to unhorse you, so be on your guard. I wish to Heaven I could get into the troop. I would teach some of those braggarts, what it is to be a trooper; but I am too poor, and never shall be rich enough to get among them. But do you take care and be not afraid of them. If you please, I will teach you your exercise." And though among canes which were nearly as high as himself, with his stick he went through the sword exercise. With the same instrument, Marley shewed him how he could perform when the book-keeper said, "You are up to it, and need not be afraid of the Don overseers." Marley then mentioned that though he had a smattering of the sword exercise, he was afraid he did not understand how to act when the word of command was given. He would therefore thank him for a list of the commands and the movements in consequence. When this request was made, he observed a faint blush overspread the weather-beaten parchment countenance of the sallow tinged book-keeper, who at once observed that he could not write, but notwithstanding, he would tell him them. In consequence, the book-keeper stated the word of command, when Marley mentioned the evolution and in this manner they ran over a great part of the common cavalry exercise till the old book-keeper gave it as his opinion that this pupil would be as good a trooper as most in the corps provided he could manage his horse equally well. And after a little farther chat, Marley bade him good bye, and returned to his apartment well pleased that there was a chance he should not commit himself very far before Captain Singleton whom he was anxious to secure as his friend.

Mr. Langbey, being engaged to accompany his brother book-keeper to Equity Hall on the Sunday, had everything in readiness to proceed immediately after breakfast. Accordingly, having informed the overseer they should be absent from dinner, they rode away and in a couple of hours they were upon that estate. Mr. Fitzhughes, the overseer was at home, M'Fathom keeping him pretty closely to the estate. After a friendly shake of the hand, and drinking a glass of grog, though two hours from grog time of day, he commenced telling them of the bustle and confusion in which the place was, in consequence of the preparations which were making for celebrating the jubilee of Mr. Brotherton. "There is to be grand dinner," said he; "they are fitting up the large hall in Happy Fortune Mansion as a ballroom under the direction of Miss M'Fathom, and when it is completed, it will be a stylish concern, quite theatre-like, though she gives it some other out-of-the-way name. There never will have been anything like it in the country. The whole of the ladies and gentlemen in the parish and in the different parishes around are to be present and we the white people upon Equity Hall are to be there too. There is now nothing thought of but this jubilee; but it will be expensive to us all, for we must get stylish clothes for the purpose and my white people are away purchasing theirs today. It will be a good three month's salary out of the book-keepers' pockets; but they must just keep it off their girls for would you believe it, there are none of them content without mahogany coloured ones.

"Langbey, you can tell whether black or brown is most expensive for when you and I were together upon Tadmer. You would not be advised for your good, but you must have a brown lady, forsooth; but she, I believe, made you repent of your choice after spending nearly two years of your salary. But since you left the estate, I understand you have grown more wise and more black in your choice and ever since you have had more money in your pocket than you formerly possessed." Langbey smiled at this rhodomontade, merely observing that "experience teacheth fools."

The conversation afterwards taking another turn, the overseer was asked if he could not let them see the operations which had been performed, preparatory to the approaching fete. He said, "I think I may, for I understand the family are going over to Mr. Brotherton's to spend the day;" and calling a negro wench, he asked if Massa and Missa had left the house, and the girl answering in the affirmative, the horses were saddled, and away they rode. In a quarter of an hour, Marley was under the roof of the house in which his father was born. It caused a sorrowful reflection or so, but that was all, for he could not recollect of ever seeing that father. The house was a strong solid stone mansion which had many years withstood the storm, and Marley thought it would not be long before he called it his. It was in a state of confusion; but the height of the apartments, with the elegance of the circular balconies, bespoke that it was only fitted for a man of large wealth. But from its then state the party could form no idea of the design which was intended to be conferred on the place; and as no farther satisfaction could be procured from observing the hall, Marley requested the overseer to shew them the different suites of apartments. This he readily complied with desiring the negress in waiting to open the different doors and conduct them through the rooms. There were many of them elegant; and the furniture, though somewhat antique indicated that it had once been what was esteemed the tiptop of fashion. The floors of polished mahogany shone like darkened mirrors and every part of the fabric where timber was to be seen was of the same kind.

They had passed over the whole house as Marley thought, and were at the extremity of the last suite on the first floor without his perceiving the spacious lobby mentioned in his grandfather's letter. He now began to think that his directions were wrong, or that the house was new modeled; but this last conjecture, the ancientness of the ceiling proclaimed not to have been the case. And the negress was for shewing them out by the passage they had entered, when the overseer ordered her to let them out by the back passage. She accordingly opened a door which Marley thought had only enclosed a recess, but from it they ascended into a spacious lobby, which led through a large balcony into the great hall.

Traversing it, they came to the only door which was on one side, and as it answered to the directions, was evidently the chamber which contained the writings of the estate. In a careless manner, Marley having asked where the door led to the overseer desired it to be opened, shewing them into a small circular room. There were some chairs and a consulting table in it with raised seats around the balcony and from its furniture, appeared to have been used as a writing and reading room. Marley eagerly looked around but could not perceive the special mark described in his instructions. Wwishing to gain time for a more narrow scrutiny, he asked the overseer if there was nothing to drink in the house, stating that as this was a cool apartment, it would answer extremely well to rest in for a little. Fitzhughes relishing the proposal, inquired of their sable conductress if she could get them anything when she said she could, at the same time retiring for that purpose.

Marley meantime kept his eyes on the alert, measuring by his sight as nearly as he could guess, the required distance from the door inwards. He then rose, and pacing the room towards the spot he had thus measured, he was a small circle in one of the panels of the seat frames. This was the indicated mark and he was so happy he had observed the eventful place hat he fixed the exact panel in his mind's eye so very distinctly that he could not be a moment in finding it again when a more opportune time presented itself. The whole of this was merely the work of an instant and while he was listening to what the overseer was saying about the wonders the grand ball would exhibit. And after the negress had brought in rum and water and they had drank a little of it, they issued out took their horses and went away -- and thus terminated the ingress and egress of Marley to and from the mansion of his ancestors.

When the party reached Equity Hall, dinner was waiting for them, during which the intended grand gala formed the whole subject of the overseer' discourse, till Marley taking the advantage of a moment apparently appropriate, thrust in his word, expressive of the pleasure they could receive, terminating with saying, "Could you not find a way to get me in." "No," says he, "I don't think it is possible." "Why?" "Because, I am afraid Mr. M'Fathom will know all who should be there. Besides, these parties are altogether out of my way never having been at one in the island, though I have been nine years in it." Since the ice was broken, Marley determined to press him and if possible gain his end, remarking, that "since the company was to be so great, it would be utterly impossible for Mr. M'Fathom to know the whole of the individuals personally, it would therefore be next to a miracle, if he should detect a single stranger among such a host. And as I have already a suit of clothes which will answer exactly; I should like dearly to see such a party; for, like you, I never may be at one for nine years to come, even if then." The overseer replied, "I wish from my whole heart and soul I could get you admitted, but I am afraid you will be discovered, and the whole blame will be laid upon me; but come over that afternoon and bring your clothes with you and I will try what I can do."

Langbey, occasionally put in a good word for his companion, and the two continued to press him so hard that being a good natured young fellow he did not like to refuel. And by the time they parted, the overseer found the scheme very practicable, and saw that detection was next to impossible.

Marley and his brother book-keeper, were at their homes before the services of the former were required, but before they had time to dismount, they were greeted by nearly a dozen of strong black men and women, with many bows and "good day massa." These were Maroons, the free blacks of the mountains; and this host of them had come a considerable distance with a runaway negro who belonged to the Valley, and whom they had frequently before brought from the bush. The remuneration they were entitled to receive was three or four dollars, and this was the principal reason which had brought so many of them from their homes with a single prisoner. These Maroons are the descendants of some of the negroes who belonged to the Spaniards when the island was conquered; their ancestors having then embraced the moment to fly to the mountains, where they have continued to reside, probably often intermixed with runaway slaves. They are recognized as free men, though they have sometimes proved troublesome enemies to the colonists, but their numbers latterly are so small that if it was not for the almost impenetrable nature of their fastnesses in the trackless forests, and the nearly inaccessible ravines in the mountains, they might now be disregarded. However, they are and have been for a considerable period at peace, and are of one advantage to the colonists, in so far as they bring back those idle slaves who incline to live rather by stealing than by working, and who for that purpose run into the bush, as the place most suitable for concealment. When the Maroons are in want of money, they form hunting parties in search of runaways, and it is seldom they are so unsuccessful as not to get one or more skulking among the mountains. -- Their prisoner Bob, was placed in the bilboes, and a quantity of victuals was furnished to the Maroons.

They were strong-built handsome-looking black people. In general, they are stronger made than the great body of the Negroes, especially the Africans, or those of only one or two descents from them. The maroons and the long-creolized negroes, have greatly improved, both in features, in size, and in strength from the African race; and in the course of years they will become the Georgians of the negro race. The thick lips, and the broad nose, are giving place to Europeans consider beauty; and probably, after two or three generations have elapsed, they will have a resemblance to their masters in every respect, except the colour.

The Maroons, in manners and mode of speaking, are the same with the negroes, however there is no goodwill between them. The former feel indignant when they are called black men or negroes, and instantly answer they are not, but that they are British subjects and George is their King. The present Maroons acknowledged the sway of Captain Quashie, who was the supreme lord and ruler over them in this district; but government always keep a white man at each of their stations or towns as a superintendent, to report any grievances which they may complain of receiving from the colonists, and also to act as spies on their conduct.

Captain Quashie affects the state of a great man, and when he appears among the colonists, his uniform consists of an old cocked hat and feather, an officer's old military coat and breeches, and with his cane in his hand, (though without shirt, shoes, or stockings), he struts as proudly as a cock upon a dunghill. This same Captain Quashie is a pensioner or state officer under the government, and it is said, receives annually an old dress such as before stated and a blanket; but one year, probably through some neglect in the public offices, his pension or yearly remuneration had been omitted to be sent to him. The regular term having elapsed, Quashie could not conceive, why Brother George as he calls our King, had forgotten to send him his coat and blanket -- it was such an omission that could not be overlooked by a great man. But day after day passing and no coat nor blanket making their appearance, he became impatient. And one morning, as it is reported, he trudged away to Spanish Town, a distance of more than a hundred miles, to enquire of the governor, why Brother George had not remitted him a coat and a blanket that year. Having reached the seat of government on application, his annual allowance was given, when he trudged home with his coat and blanket, well pleased that he had made so successful a journey. And yet, such a man is not to be despised for Great Britain has entered into treaties with the like of him.

On the overseer's return, he paid the Maroons their demand in the hope that they would instantly depart -- but to his regret, they were perceived preparing to pass the night under a shed. Knowing the people well, he said nothing but at supper he remarked that he was afraid he should have a long visit from them. "These fellows," added he, "are useful in one respect, but they are troublesome in another. Here now we shall have to feed a dozen of them for a number of days, probably for eight or ten, and what without complaining, for to my knowledge, if one should irritate them in the slightest manner, they are sure to commit more depredations, and cause more destruction in the course of one night than the expense of supporting them for a month; and nothing irritates them sooner, than telling them to shorten their visit. While they are here however, a sharp look out after the watchmen must be kept, and one to you," addressing himself to the book-keepers, "will see that the watchmen are at their posts on the cattle pens and on the house; and tell them to look strictly after the Maroons." And after leaving the overseer as the night was fine, both book-keepers examined the posts, and gave the watchmen strict orders to keep a sharp eye upon the strangers. The watchmen uniformly replied, "Yes massa, him savey de Maroons. Him no let him Maroons tief." But as to the length of their visit, the overseer was mistaken, for they went away on the fourth morning.

CHAPTER VI

NEXT morning, Bob, an incorrigible runaway, received thirty-nine and was sent to the field in charge of one of the drivers with orders to watch him narrowly and return him to the stocks at shell-blow. In this manner, Bob was wrought carried out of the stocks by an under driver to the field, and from thence carefully returned to them when work was over. When he was in the field he wrought well, and seemed to be a peaceable enough boy, of about fifty years of age, and although wholly and as well fed from the estate as any of the other negroes were, who had to provide the greatest part of their own food, he made no secret in saying that he would soon be in a bush again. To obtain his services, there, the coercion of confinement when he was not under the eye of the driver was absolutely necessary; but his mode of living for Bob did not continue long, for in about ten days afterwards he forced the stocks, broke out of the hot-house, and all search after him at this period proved fruitless.

In the early part of the day, Mr. Langbey went to the mountains with several of the people in order to prepare the buckra's provision ground as the negroes called it, he was to be absent about fourteen days. During this period, the books of the estate were put under Marley's charge to keep the journal of the daily proceedings upon the plantation till his return. By which means he had an opportunity of learning the actual state of the property, so far as concerned the working of the same. He found that there were five negroes, viz. two females and three men out, which means they were in the bush and could not be found; but there were three negro women who had sat down for life upon the property, and who received the same allowance as if they had been working, in consequence of each of them having, or had living at one time, six children in pursuance of a colonial law to that effect. They were the mothers of families as reputable, industrious, and well-behaved, as any upon the property; and which reputable families, were enabled from their own private industry to provide themselves with superior clothing to what the estate allowed, in addition to supplying themselves with many other comforts which they were thereby enabled to obtain. Punishment, they never received, neither was the whip ever applied to them; and it was a pleasant sight to observe the brothers and husbands of the females taking their stations beside each other in the field, lightening the portion of the labour of the females, by assisting them as often as they could get their hoes in.

These negroes comparatively speaking were in a state of comfort and happiness. They did not know what liberty was. The greater part of them had been born and had lived the whole of their lives upon the property, and it was their home. Those who were industrious had formed comfortable houses, which were their own. They had no cares -- they apparently had as few wants. The estate furnished them with herrings, and their grounds furnished them with provisions more than sufficient for their consumption, the over-plus of which they carried to market. Some of them also had a few poultry, some pigs, and two or three goats; and from these sources, they raised a little money to purchase some little finery in dress, and some little luxuries to consume. They knew they would be attended to when sick, and that they would have the benefit of a buckra doctor and buckra medicines. They thought if they were free they could not procure any of these and with the exception of a few of the head men and tradesmen who can appreciate the value of their labour, few of the decent well-behaved negroes desire it, for, say they, "if him free, who gib him clothes -- who gib him house -- who gib him neger grounds -- who gib him fish -- who send him doctor when him sick. No, massa, no. Better him neger massa, dan him free massa."

These respectable negroes unfortunately, in general, do not numerically amount to above the one-half of the slaves upon an estate. There is upon every property, especially if it is anything large, as there was upon this a numerous body of idle, disorderly, and dissolute people of both sexes, upon whom punishment has a very slender effect and who, as must be expected, are eager for their "freedom." Which word however, they, as well as almost the whole of the negroes, consider in a light far wide of what their friends in Britain explain it, and their interpretation of it would prove instantaneously destructive to the colony. They think that freedom means a cessation from labour altogether -- and that when they are allowed freedom, they are to work no more farther than growing provisions for themselves, and this being so easily done, they would then be satisfied.

They are an indolent race -- the general body of slaves have not yet reached that stage in society where luxury, interest or ambition, stimulate men to exertions for the purpose of accumulating wealth or gaining celebrity. Necessity, among the great body of the black people, is the only incent to labour which they have; indeed, not created being from the frozen regions to the Equinoctial line desires or performs labour from a mere love of it. It is either some immediate or anticipated good for which men labour, and when it is only to satisfy the common wants of nature, very little is required or bestowed before the end is attained, particularly in a Tropical climate. Till, therefore, the negroes acquire artificial wants, and those of such a nature as to stimulate the mass of them to continued labour, they are not in that stage of society, or progress from barbarism to civilization which fits them to be the judges of their own actions, or what may be called free men. Till they attain such a state, the boon of freedom would operate upon them as a curse instead of blessing; and if an act for the total abolition of slavery were to pass into a law, a tragedy would be acted in Jamaica similar to that which was performed in the neighbouring island of Haiti. This island, the queen of the West Indies, with its finely cultivated fields, its elegant buildings and expensive works would become a waste -- the houses would be burned -- the works destroyed -- and industry come to an end. This earthly paradise would become a wilderness and then might be seen the negro but rude in comparison with what it is at present, supported against what was once the wall of a palace; and the hall where hospitality graced the board, might be seen converted into a cattle-fold. This is not the ravings of a speculatist who views only the dark side of the picture. It is what has been seen, and may be seen this day, in various parts of Saint Domingo, and what would inevitably happen in Jamaica, if such a revolution as manumitting the whole slave population at once took place. It is to be hoped, however, that such an experiment, teeming with danger and destructions, not only to the white population, but to the blacks themselves, will never be made. But this digression from the detail we were giving has already extended farther than was intended, we will therefore leave it for the present, to resume it hereafter when we come to consider the means which are practicable for ameliorating the condition of the negroes, to the benefit of themselves and their owners.

The different bodies of the people upon the estate are classed into gangs. There were two field gangs which have been already mentioned, and in addition to them there was a small gang called the pickeniny gang -- these were the most numerous. The pickeniny gang, consisted of the children who were taken to the field under the superintendence of an elderly woman who carried a small whip to keep her young charge in order, and to whom were given small hoes, with which they wrought in the best way they were able -- but as was to be expected, the work they performed was of very trifling consequence. The placing of these children in a gang was not so much for the purpose of procuring work from them, as to prevent their committing mischief among the negro houses when their parents were absent, and to keep them out of harm's way; or in other words, it was the school to which they were sent to learn the duties which would be required of them during the whole course of their lives. Their little black faces, and their laughing countenances while at work, cheerfully imitating the older negroes in their song, formed such emblems of innocence and happiness, that no person who looked at them, could help regretting that one day they would be subjected to a heavier whip than that which was carried by the old woman.

In addition to these gangs, there was a carpenter's gang -- a mason's gang -- a cooper's gang -- and a smith's gang; the three latter of whom, upon this estate, were superintended by head-men from among themselves. These gangs consisted chiefly of brown people, and among them could be enumerated the different shades of Samboes, Mulattoes, a couple of Mustees, and a Mustiphini or Quadroon. These men of colour contrived to obtain dress superior to the generality of the negroes, and it was very seldom that any of them received or deserved punishment. They considered themselves as a superior race to the blacks, for when any quarrel took place between the two colours, the browns never failed to make use of the word neger in a reproachful sense. The blacks, however, were not backwards in retorting, "You brown man hab no country. Only de neger and de buckra hab country", meaning that the brown people were of a mixed race, and had not a particular country from which they were descended, such as the whites and the blacks.

However, these men were never employed in field work -- they never had a driver following them, and it is on very few estates and those must be very poor indeed, where a brown man or woman is ever wrought in the field among the negroes. It is considered inhuman, that the child of a white man should be reduced to the same state as that of a negro, and few proprietors, attorny s, or overseers, but would spurn at the idea of so employing them. On this estate, they were not sent into the field, and the women of that colour furnished some of the house servants and washerwomen for the white people which was nearly synonymous with being entirely idle, so little work was required of them.

To return -- work went on as usual; but one day during the week, the party at Water Melon Valley received an unexpected visit from the attorny , just at the instant they were sitting down to dinner. During which, though he said little, the overseer seemed somewhat thoughtful and agitated; but Marley being unaccustomed to the respect due to an attorny when he visits an estate under his charge, did not then see why this call should cause trouble to anyone. The whole party were found at their posts, which he considered all that could have been expected; but, on retiring, the carpenter mentioned to him that there was something thought wrong, or this unexpected visit would not have been made, for had all been right, the attorny , according to his custom, would have sent notice of his coming, and then something extra could have been prepared for his entertainment. Marley was on the eve of proceeding to the field, when he was told he was wanted in the buckra house. Having entered the overseer desired him to bring in the Estate's Journal. This he did, and the attorny having perused a few of the entries returned it as if satisfied. He then asked him some few questions, and particularly if he had ever been on any estate but the present. Being answered in the negative, and informed that Marley had not been long in the country he was told he might retire which he accordingly did, and went to the field reflecting on what this visit would tend to. The negroes too, who are very observant of all that passes on the estate, wished much to learn what "toder massa" wanted by coming to the buckra house, but on his head they were not satisfied.

At supper, the overseer remarked that the attorny had come up on the understanding that the estate was wrong managed, and that the negroes performed their work in such a manner as pleased themselves -- that they were not under control, and that a change must take place. Mr. Samuels said, that, in justification of himself, he mentioned, that the work was performed in the same manner as formerly -- that the last year's crop was not inferior to a number of preceding ones, and that the negroes were healthy and increasing in numbers. That may be all true, rejoined the attorny , but I am credibly informed, that more crop might be raised from the estate than its former produce. Samuels thought differently, but he replied that he would take in additional ground, and plant more canes this year than he intended to have done, though he was fearful his strength would not be adequate to work such new ground in a proper manner. But he would do so, and make the trial whenever the rains set in. He wished the attorny to look at the cane plants, stating that if he did, he was sure he would then be satisfied that there was not an estate in the parish in better condition. He told him of the state of the rattoons, the second rattoons, and the third rattoons, and spoke of their delightfully luxuriant appearance; but the attorny would not consent to visit them, for alas, this managing as well as planting attorny knew nothing of the matter, and could scarcely distinguish the difference between a cane plant and a second or even a third rattoon. The overseer also spoke to him of the increase of the people, observing that the gangs would yearly become stronger than they were at present, from the numerous births upon the property, and besides, that several of the women were not working from being in a state of pregnancy which had the tendency at the time to weaken the field gangs.

The attorny , however, laid very little stress upon this prospective increase, saying that he wished great crops in the meantime; because it was not in his way to look forward from what might happen in the years to come. And when he was going away, he said that he would certainly expect an increase upon next year's crop. Samuels really thought to have received commendation in consequence of the increase; but it seems the attorny was one of those (and it is a pity most people are such) who look more to the present moment than to an anticipated good which cannot be brought into operation before a number of years have elapsed.

Work went on next day as formerly, with the exception that the negroes were more pushed, and the whip was oftener smacked behind them. But even with this pushing, little or no more labour was given or strength expended; nor did the negroes complain; but worked as merrily, and sung as gaily as ever.

After shell-blow, a negro man and woman brought their daughter, a girl about sixteen years of age, who belonged to one of the field gangs, with a sad complaint to the overseer, that for some time past she had been addicted to dirt-eating, and though they had endeavoured to persuade her to desist by the means both of gently and harsh treatment, they had not been able to make her abandon this abominable and pernicious propensity. On this account they had brought her for massa to put her into the stocks, in order to prevent her from having any farther opportunity of so doing in the future, and which was accordingly done. She was rather a good looking negress, but like many others had fallen into this detestable negro practice of eating earth, a species of disease which if persisted in for any length of time uniformly terminates in dropsy and death. She was kept in confinement for a number of days and as this unnatural craving is considered a disease, she was properly treated by the doctor and fed from the white people's table, until she was dismissed. Whether or not she reverted to her former practice is not now remembered.

On Sunday, the overseer with Marley, having an invitation to dine on an estate some few miles distant, they attended and found assembled a large party of overseers and some others. After dinner, Samuels having accidently mentioned the little thanks he had received from the attorny in consequence of the increase of the negroes since he had taken charge of the estate; a conversation on the subject of the increase and the decrease of the people on the various properties with which they were acquainted, took place. Samuels having sated how much his people had increased, one of the party remarked, "We need not wonder at that, for I dare say, your estate furnishes wives for the one half of my men while at the same time numbers of our girls cannot get husbands." "That, like enough may be the case," replied the former, "but to make up for what you lose on the score, I know very well, that several of my people have wives upon your property, and still more to my certain knowledge, there are some of them, who even travel five or six miles of a night to other properties to see their work." "Well, well," rejoined the other, "yours may be increasing, and I am sorry I cannot compliment myself on the same head, for mine are decreasing, but this can be easily enough accounted for, from the fact of their having been too few females upon the property when the abolition took effect; and of the number of females who are on the estate, very few, indeed, of our negroes will deign to fix their affections on them. They will rather wander upon the neighbouring estates and seek wives there; a practice which has now become too common, and which we cannot well remedy for surely it would be the height of cruelty for us to interfere in such a manner. From the Newspapers it appears the Saints are desirous to have the negroes regularly married thinking good men that the slaves always choose their wives from the property upon which they themselves live. But this we all know is far from being the case, for though numbers of them may pick out their wives from their own estate, others will always be straying after such as are more strange to them, much in the same fashion as the men in Britain, who rarely marry from among their very intimate acquaintances. The negroes are flesh and blood in this respect, pretty much like ourselves, and it is a fact which is well known to us all that we are more frequently entrapped by a strange face than a known one. In these circumstances, it seems rather difficult to be perceived how the Saints could beneficially contrive to join a man and woman as husband and wife whose residences are several miles apart, and who, unless occasionally or clandestinely have no opportunity of meeting. Fit parents such persons would make to bring up a family, if no other person were to look after their children, and see whether or not they were properly treated."

Another planter mentioned, that the negroes under him were decreasing from a similar cause. "But," says he, "what surprises me most is that although there are more young men than young women on our estate; that every one of the latter should not have got married, for one would naturally think this would have taken place had they been so inclined. No such thing however has happened. Few of them in comparison have got married and it is greatly to be pitied that too many of the unmarried are very abandoned, though otherwise good enough girls. What cause could have occasioned such a laxity of morals among them, I never could ascertain, and unless it arises from the very disparity of their numbers in their confined society, I cannot conjecture; for upon other estates where the numbers were nearly equal, or even where the females predominated, no such depravity did I ever observe as upon the present estate. But from whatever cause it originates, it is the fact and I would feel sincerely obliged, if the Saints would point out a remedy to cure this evil, for I am afraid there is not virtue enough in the cow-skin to effect a reformation."

He was succeeded by another, who stated that there had not been a birth upon the estate which he managed in the course of the year, and the only reason which he could assign for such an uncommon event, was, that the people had been employed in carrying shingles from the mountains. Seeing that numbers among the company shewed symptoms of indignation, at hearing that the negroes had been engaged in such work in justification of himself, he pretended it was contrary to his will, that the people were so employed and that although he had previously remonstrated with the attorny on the subject, he had received peremptory instructions to do so. It seems that this estate had prepared a quantity of shingles, (pieces of timber from twelve to eighteen inches long, by six or seven board), for the purpose of repairing the roofs of the buildings upon the property. This had been done from the timber growing on their mountain land, situated at a distance of seven or eight miles from the estate, and to save the labour of mules, the people had been for a length of time employed bringing them from that distance in such loads as they were able to carry on their heads; this being the usual and almost the only manner in which negroes carry burdens. That it might cause such an occurrence as the overseer had stated, need not occasion much surprise, when the excessive fatigue of walking so great a distance with a heavy load is taken into consideration. But as the circumstance of making people carry burdens such a distance appeared very uncommon even to the other overseers, none of whom, as they expressed themselves, had ever heard of the like before, it may be presumed, it is of very rare occurrence .

None of the other overseers had a similar tale to tell. Some said their people were increasing, while others said theirs were remaining stationary, or, if anything, rather upon the increase. But upon the whole the greater part declared that they were on the improving side. "But," says Marley, "may I as a stranger ask, whether slavery has ever had the effect of causing an increase of the slaves, above the numbers of those actually imported; in other words, are the present descendants of blacks, more numerous than those who were brought to the island; or in short, has the slave system truly been the merciful one, which the West Indian interest so earnestly wish the people in Britain to believe?" "That it has not been a merciful one," replied an old gentleman, the proprietor of a small penn in the neighbourhood, "I think we must be forced to admit, when we consider that previous to the abolition, it is general believed that more slaves in number were imported into the British Islands, and those ceded to us than the whole white people who colonized North America. Now pray what has become of their descendants? -- for in the whole islands, with the part of America which we hold as well as in the United States, it is not thought, that there now remains much above three or at most four millions. Allowing that, numbers of our negroes previous to the abolition had been sold again to the other islands, and even some to the Spanish Main, still, notwithstanding this loss, which must only have been trifling they ought still to have increased and the present population at this time should the blacks not have increased in the same? The answer evidently is that they have not had fair play by being overwrought and under fed other their progeny ought to have been greater than that of the white population in the United States: in as much as there were no obstacles to the union of the negroes, whereas on the other land, the whites though they had few, had some to overcome previous to marriage; while the blacks in this respect were free, and without care or concern for the rearing of their children. Slavery therefore, previously to the abolition, appears to have been inimical to propagation, and consequently it was a murderous system. But since such times are past, and cannot now be remedied the subject assumes a different aspect, and resolves itself into the question, will the negroes now that the importation is abolished, decrease or increase? My opinion is that in this island they will increase, but seeing that not much more than fifteen years have elapsed since the act took effect, it would be using the West Indians very unfairly, if a judgment was to be inferred from the decrease which followed rapidly thereupon, or even if a decrease which followed rapidly thereupon, or even if a decrease has since taken place; for, though on some estates they may have increased, and on others decreased, no correct inference from this circumstance can be deduced that where they have decreased they have been ill used, or vice versa. For, it ought to be remembered that the cargoes of negroes from Africa were not what the merchants term, assorted cargoes of ages and of sexes; and although at the era of the abolition there was an immense number of negroes who had been born in the West Indies, less attention to the acquiring of strength from the natural increase of births had been bestowed by too many planters than that of obtaining able-bodied people for for immediate work. This mode of purchasing labour, it must be confessed, was very natural, especially to planters who were necessitous. The great body of planters, for a very long period, have been necessitous; and in consequence, it was very natural for them to seek for labourers, who would tend to relieve their difficulties. In addition to necessity, forcing many to purchase more men than women, a most erroneous and cruel idea had been instilled into the minds of the generality of the planters, and by them implicitly believed to be correct that it was cheaper to purchase than to rear. From these causes united, at the time when the abolition of the slave trade took place, some estates had an over-proportion of females while on others there was an over-proportion of men; and it is generally believed and seems really to have been the fact that there were considerably more males than females in the West Indies at that period. An increase on some estates, and a decrease on others must therefore naturally have taken place which we are all well aware has actually been the case, and it is probable, nay, it is pretty certain that upon the whole, there has been a decrease of the slave population of the islands; but not nearly in the same proportion as would have happened if the slave trade had continued operation, that is, if new importations had not been excluded. However, that this traffic has ceased though from the causes above stated, it is too soon to expect that the natural order of things should have been accomplished, tending to an increase. Still, such a period must be fast approaching, the old will be dying off, a new era must have begun; and we should presume, that at the end of ten or fifteen years from this period, a fair decision may then be made. If they do increase, as I believe they are doing in this island, it will prove that their usage is good, and that slavery is not inimical to population; but on the other hand, if they decrease without any particular malignant pestilence desolating these countries; or unless it is shewn, that the decrease is occasioned from that peculiar disease which proves fatal to such vast numbers of young children; the old system of overworking and under-feeding must be the cause. And if this latter should happen, though a settler myself, I think, it is evidently the duty of any civilized humane government to endeavor to remedy so serious an evil."

After some farther talk on this and other subjects, the party broke up, and Marley with his overseer rode home.

At supper, Samuels made a grievous complaint about losing his favourite bitch Malvina. He had had her for several years and was much attached to her, but she was carried off by the then prevalent dog sickness. He lamented her much and while relating her good qualities and his regret for her loss, Daphne the housekeeper, entered the room to inform the company that little Quasheba had got a wench pickeniny. The Busha, on hearing this almost started from his chair, exclaiming to Marley how fortunate! It could not have occurred in a more lucky nick of time. Be sure, therefore to bestow the name of Malvina upon her which will act as a memento to keep her name in remembrance. Marley smiled at the idea of bestowing this whelp's name upon a human being, though a black one; but he acquiesced and that same evening, entered her name in the estate's books, Malvina, at the same time giving out the statutory quantity of clothing for the young stranger, and inserting her name in the herring roll at two herrings a week.

On the Monday, on reaching the field rather before sunrise, Marley found the overseer had preceded him and unfortunately that morning several of the negroes were behind their time. As they came in, the overseer ordered them to be laid down, and each received either nine or ten lashes. This was the first time Marley had seen any punished in the field, and he felt particularly sorry for an old man who was among the defaulters, and whom he had always found very attentive and diligent. But none were pardoned -- all received the same punishment without distinction of sex or age. The negroes said very little, but the moment the Busha's back was turned to go away, the whole line commenced singing in a general chorus, as if they regarded him not, "I don't care a damn, oh! I don't care a damn, oh!' and this must have sounded in his ears for at least five minutes before he could get beyond the reach of hearing.

A day scarcely ever elapsed without some complaint being made by one negro against another. This day before dinner, old Bruin complained that his boy Lion, who assisted Columbus the cattle-keeper in tending the cattle had been ill used by the latter. He said that if Lion behaved ill he should be told of it, when he would chastise him himself; and on Columbus being sent for, he partially admitted the charge, but said, that little Lion would not obey him. Th overseer told him to do so no more, but when any of the boys behaved ill, to tell him when he would send them to their fathers to chastise them; but he never did, neither would he allow the boy to be ill used by those whom they were under and he hoped in future, he should hear no more complaints of such a nature.

During one of these days, Marley received from his shipmate Campbell a letter, of which the following is a transcript:

"MY DEAR SIR,

BELIEVE me, I was happy on the receipt of yours, for, from your long silence, I thought you had gone to "the land of the leal;" to which terra incognita, I sometime ago, really expected I was fast posting. Death and I had a hard spell together. I verily believed I was on thieve of making a Jamaica fortune, and becoming a residenter, till awakened by the sound of the last trumpet; but as my good fortune would have it, I weathered the fever, and I hope I am now seasoned, and that my lease of life will be extended five years at least, at the expiry of which time, I am told I may expect another seasoning. You may be thankful you have escaped so easily and you have my sincere wishes that you may always be equally fortunate; but in this, or indeed in any country, we should not buoy up our hopes with dreams of long life, but should keep in remembrance the saying of old Jack our coxswain, that life is only a ball of ropeyarn -- that in the lottery there are balls of all sizes -- that some draw large ones, some middling sized ones, and some small ones; but of whatever size they may be, they are continually rolling and running off, and though some may roll longer than others, the longest will roll out and come to an end.

I must confess, the people at home entertain curious ideas of the state of those who come here. They thing, and I was led to believe it that the people lived an idle life, rioting in all the luxuries of a tropical climate; but, good folds, they are much mistaken. I used often to pity the poor negroes, when I heard of the laborious work which the unfeeling idle white people made them perform; but little did I think that I myself should have to undergo more fatigue each day than the negroes whom I pitied. But it is the fact; and with the exception that the whip cannot be applied to my back, nor the stocks to my feet, I am not much better treated than the blacks whole misery I had so often deplored.

From what you mention, you are far more comfortably lodged than I am; any of the negroes in this respect being superior to me. The boiling spell here, is much similar to that on your estate, but the field work is something different, for, I place of my going to the buckra house to breakfast, a negro wench is sent to me, bearing on her head a bottle of cold coffee, with a couple of cold salt herrings and plantains stuck on the end of a fork, on which I have the pleasure of breakfasting in the field. In addition to keeping the hot-house keys -- the rat book -- the number of cattle great and small, and the pigs; proh pudor! I have also the charge of the poultry, and must give an account of the eggs which are produced or should be produced in a morning by the ducks and hens. This latter employment, my dear Sir, rouses my Highland blood with shame for it is surely degrading to manhood to be entrusted with such a charge; but alas, I must put up with it, for I cannot perceive any mode of improving my condition.

Our overseer is a curious sort of a character for a Highland man. Unless when giving orders, he never condescends to open his lips to us, the white people, who are under him, whom he seems to consider as of a different species from himself, and of a caste similar to the negroes, if not of one even lower than them. And yet this countryman of mine, bears the character of a warm-hearted good-natured man, among the whole of the people in this neighbourhood, with the exception of us buckras under him.

I have enquired after my late brother's affairs, and have seen a correct statement of them, by which I am satisfied he died in a state of insolvency, so that I have abandoned all hopes from that quarter. By what I have learned since I came to the island, I find, that all who die here do not die so very rich, as their friends in Britain maintain, and that fewer are cheated out of their relations; property, than common report would lead most people to believe. From what daily passes before my eyes, it appears that in place of most adventures succeeding in realizing wealth, there are considerably more in bankrupt circumstances in proportion to their numbers even than there is in the old country. Expecting to hear from you soon, believe me to be,

Faithfully Yours, RONALD CAMPBELL.

The day for the celebration of the jubilee being on the ever of approaching, Marley had examined and re-examined the dress which he intended to wear, till he had satisfied himself, that he should not make a worse appearance than the most foppish Creole who might be present. He anticipated success to his scheme of getting the writings into his possession when an accident happened which had nearly defeated the whole of his plans. He became lame owing to a pain in one of his feet. He examined the part, but could see nothing farther than a small white speck. This he could not account for till one of the people informed him that there must be a jigar or chigoe in his foot which had been allowed to continue there too long. At this time, Marley was unacquainted with those painful insects which find ways of getting into and breeding in the flesh, principally in the feet. Being informed that the negroes are very dexterous in taking out these troublesome insects, he called one of the negro girls, who extracted the same without breaking it, and having filled up the orifice with burnt tobacco, it almost instantaneously relieved him of his lameness. He had many times afterwards occasion to observe the negroes lame from a similar cause, and to hear their outcries when someone was picking the insect out, and rubbing into the sore, that vitriolic substance called bluestone. Numbers of the negroes are so very indolent that they will allow the whole forepart of their feet to be overrun with them, rather than take the trouble to extract them, or allow others to do so. And though many of them suffer considerable pain from neglecting to take them out before the bladders which the chigoes form, it does not operate as a warning either to themselves or to others; for in dry weather, numbers are always to be seen lame from this cause. It is a hateful and distressing insect which feeds upon and continues increasing in the flesh of man; but with a small portion of care devoted to their extraction when they are first felt little inconvenience from thence arises.

The long expected day of the jubilee having at last come, Marley obtained leave to depart from the estate after dinner without mentioning where he was engaged; and accordingly mounting his horse, with his ball dress in a portmanteau, he rode to Equity Hall. He there found the overseer by himself, expecting his arrival and having arranged how Marley was to obtain admission it was agreed between them for the purpose of preventing discovery that they should sit apart at dinner and conduct themselves throughout the evening as if they were unacquainted. They afterwards retired and by the time they had assumed their garbs for the occasion, it was drawing nigh to dusk, the period when the scene of festivity was to commence.

In the intermediate space, Marley casually enquired whether he had ever been informed that the tail of a hurricane about twenty years ago had injured Happy Fortune estate. The overseer said he never had but there is our old negro doctor who has been upon the property for a far longer period and he of course will be able to tell. Having called, and questioned him on the subject, he answered, "No massa no. Neber hab him hurricane on Happy Fortune, massa." Thus satisfied, Marley dropped the conversation and it being time to depart, they unobserved by the other white people on the estate, mounted their horses, followed by a boy to take them back to the overseer's shed, a place which was appropriated for a stable.

CHAPTER VII

APPROACHING the mansion of Happy Fortune, a considerable number of carriages came into view; and around the house, numbers of black servants in livery, and numbers otherwise well-dressed were standing in groups, busily engaged in informing each other of everything which was strange. The lawns in the neighbourhood were crowded with the cattle which had brought the visitors to this scene of rejoicing while the piazza shewed that the numbers who were promenading within were not few. Without making any pause, the overseer and Marley reached the door, and entered the crowded hall apparently without any person observing them; all the visitors, it would seem who had required ceremonious attentions, having arrived at different periods throughout the day; being fairly into the hall, the overseer and his companion according to agreement separated to opposite sides.

Marley was thus left to himself and the company, consisting of various groups were seemingly too much occupied in festive discourse to notice him. Having no person to converse with, he silently traversed the room admiring the display of the rural tropical decorations which were fixed on the walls and over the doors and windows of its large apartment. Here were to be seen festoons variously diversified, according to the taste and fantasy of the decoratress; while in other quarters, arbours of curious shapes and sizes graced the hall. These rural ornaments, were formed with branches of fragrant orange, the lemon, the lime, the mango, the pomegranate, the forbidden fruit, with dozens of others all hanging rich with fruit, or in blossom, besides innumerable flowers and shrubs, the productions of the delightful island of Jamaica. The fragrance which pervaded the apartment was delectable, and when joined with the sumptuous appearance of the fruit, the blossoms, and the flowers hanging in clusters amidst the dark green leaves to which they belonged illuminated with transparent lamps of every hue from the most modest to the most gaudy. The spectators must have admitted that the splendid scenes in the Arabian Nights were not altogether as fabulous. In admiring the fantastic and delightful paradise in which he was strolling, time passed imperceptibly and it was only the appearance of dinner which was serving up in an adjoining apartment that awakened him out of his day-dream of thought that he who was the rightful owner should be an intruder and an unknown guest in the halls of his ancestors.

So awakened from his reverie, he then paced to the opposite side to the entrance of the passage leading into the large apartment in which the servants were laying dinner. It furnished a contrast to the rural decorations of the hall, being decorated with the most elegant and fashionable furniture, adorned with superb chandeliers, and ornamented with celebrated works of art; but on looking into the room which he had so narrowly inspected at his last visit to his great sorrow and mortification, he perceived it was allotted to the butler for the purpose of holding his liquors. Disconsulate and depressed in spirits at thus seeing his imagined well-laid schemes of procuring those papers, which were to put him in possession of all his anticipated wealth, happiness and honour -- to make him the sole master of this splendid house, with all its contained grandeur, so completely frustrated, he forgot that he was in the midst of an earthly paradise, and was sauntering slowly and absently along when a hurried bustle of the persons around him all looking eagerly towards the door diverted his attention and drew his eyes to that direction. He then beheld an elderly gentleman of pleasing countenance and courteous manners enter the room accompanied by a gentleman somewhat younger than himself whose countenance also was far from displeasing. Marley judged from the general greeting and the cordial shaking of hands, which immediately ensued, that these gentlemen were Mr. Brotherton, and his son-in-law, Mr. M'Fathom. His conjecture was right. Though he was near, he made no approaches towards these gentlemen, but bestowed upon them such a look, as fixed their visages in his memory so distinctly, that no lapse of time afterwards could make him forget them; and among the confusion and eagerness of numbers to get forward, he passed unobserved.

Shortly after these seniors had made their appearance, a beautiful young creature accompanied by several ladies and gentlemen entered at the same door. Although timidly modest, the young lady entered with grace and some little dignity and the sweet tone of voice in which she replied to the many compliments which she received added to her slender elegant form and unaffected deportment, enraptured Marley, as well as pleased everyone who could approach near enough to see and hear her. For a moment, Marley was chained to the spot on which he stood -- his every idea was centered in admiration of the lovely figure he beheld. He fancied he had never seen so beautiful a female -- one so nearly approaching to the angelic. When separated from her sight, and too far distant hear the intonations of her voice, he felt sorry that such a fine girl should be the daughter of a man who could defraud the orphan; but he was soon diverted from such thoughts, by seeing the party taking their seats for dinner. He sought the lowest part of the table, and seated himself among gentlemen whose appearance bespoke them to belong to estates from whom he was aware he had nothing to dread in the shape of enquiries. In his supposition he was not wrong, for he soon afterwards learned that he was among Mr. Brotherton's white people and some neighbouring overseers.

The dinner was sumptuous and elegant, partaking more of an English one than was common within the Tropics. All the rarities of the country as well as of Europe were called into requisition. The wines were of the first quality. The dessert consisted of sweetmeats and fruits, displayed in all the different modes of fashionable taste, so much so that it would have been considered superlatively grand even in the old country. There was lack of nothing; and the negro attendants who were rather too numerous even for this large party, were mostly in livery, nay, even every one of them had shoes on their feet, and in consequence, many of them were to be seen walking as if they trode on eggs, or had hard peas in their shoes, so cautiously did they set their confined feet on the floor.

During dinner, Marley attentively observed how matters were getting on at the upper end of the board where Miss M'Fathom presided. She seemed to be unconscious that all eyes were occasionally fixed upon her, or that her every motion was minutely noticed. With easy dignity and conscious innocence, she went through the routine of the scene which was passing before her. He must have been fastidious indeed, who did not admire her fair form and the naturally graceful mode in which she filled the place allotted to her as the only descendant of the old gentleman who was the joyful occasion of their meeting. There was nothing in her conduct which conveyed the slightest symptoms of affectations, neither did a single action which Marley could observe betray her to be actuated in the least degree by the pride of wealth or superiority of birth. Modesty and affability beamed in her eyes, and the highest degree of pleasure which she evinced, arose from seeing those pleased around her. From his distance, Marley heard very little of what was said at the head of the table and that little not very distinctly; but, to make amends for this loss, there was no want of conversation in his immediate neighbourhood where the gentlemen were not sparing of encomiums on their lovely hostess. Praises from every quarter sounded in his ears, and he deeply regretted she was the daughter of his most decided enemy and mortal foe. While she was in his sight, Marley could not help joining in these encomiums, but whenever his eyes were turned from her, he felt sorry that she was so beautiful and lovely for he wished to hate her because of her near alliance to the man he could never respect.

Dinner passed -- the table was uncovered and cleared of the fragments of the repast, when, after the King's health was given and drank, the glasses were charged for a bumper. An elderly looking gentleman then rose, and after a short preamble in which the subject of their meeting was adverted to and the good qualities of their venerable host commented on. He have the health of Mr. Brotherton, and long life, happiness, and prosperity, which was drank upstanding, with three times three, and all the honours. Mr. Brotherton replied very shortly, but so inaudibly, that Marley could not gather the substance farther than that it gave him the greatest pleasure and happiness imaginable to see so many of his friends assembled around him, and that he trusted that most of them would one day have the like joy and delight of having occasion to celebrate a similar meeting for themselves. The health of Mr. M'Fathom followed, though with much less cheering than that of his father-in-law; and afterwards, that of the lovely heiress of Equity Hall, Brotherton Hall, Happy Fortune and Conch Shell, was received with reiterated applause in which however, Marley could not join with anything like cordiality. It seemed to him a fatal stroke and a final termination of his long anticipated hopes, for, here was a recognisal of another as the undoubted proprietrix of what he had all along considered as his own; but he could only regret in secret. After a number of healths, accompanied with suitable speeches and answers, toasts and sentiments, were drank with numerous songs and various tunes from a well assorted orchestra, the party adjourned to the hall, which was intended for the ballroom.

Considering Marley's naturally gay disposition and sanguine temper of mind, his desponding cogitations, as may easily be imagined could not long remain undispelled in the midst of a large party such as this where nothing was to be heard or seen but hilarity and mirth. His cheerful habits returned at beholding every one joyous around him -- his pensiveness for the moment was forgot and he almost involuntarily entered into the spirit of festivity and harmony which was the order of the night till he was equally happy with any of those who were present. He observed there were many present who seemed nearly as little acquainted with the company as himself and though he could not think they were intruders like him, he inferred he had no reason to be afraid of a challenge, as to how he came there -- and with such as were apparently strangers, he soon felt himself as much at home as among his own acquaintances.

Very little time elapsed before the music struck up for the dance, and among accompany consisting chiefly of Creoles, eager lovers of this amusement, the floor did not long remain empty. The ball opened with Miss M'Fathom and a young Creole gentleman taking their place upon the floor for the reel, followed by a few sets of those, who apparently considered themselves as the first in the land. Miss M'Fathom did not disgrace the English teacher who had instructed her, for she danced equally well, at least with the best of the dancers among her companions. Marley narrowly observed her every motion, and was unconsciously delighted with her easy manner while in her most gay moments for he could not perceive that the least species of that coquetry and affectation which seemed so prevalent among a great number of the ladies who were present had any place in her breast. He involuntarily hoped to have observed some such failing because he wished to have a cause to dislike her, for being the daughter of M'Fathom, and in consequence, interfering so very nearly with his future prospects; but he was unable to discover any such defect, and in his own mind he had to confess that she was guided without any effort of her own by good sense and innate modesty. He had imagined that because her father was bad, she must in some way or other be tined with some of his failings -- but he was now compelled to admit however reluctantly, that a bad father may have a lovely and virtuous daughter, such as this lady's appearance bespoke her to be.

When the set of reels terminated, Marley, who was extremely partial to the amusement, wished much to obtain a partner, but he felt averse to solicit any lady, and more especially Miss M'Fathom, without some kind of an introduction. He saw many solicitations made, and he perceived few refusals given, but then he could not help thinking that the parties must previously have been acquainted. In this dilemma he was irresolute how he should act. He was afraid to make the trial for he knew that in the confined society among which he was should he be so fortunate as to succeed in the recovery of his property a refusal of this kind would ever afterwards be remembered, and he was reluctant that even anyone of the fair should have such a triumph over him. New sets were getting up; and while he was pondering in this manner, sauntering along without having any apparent object in view, he was accosted by a gentleman who had been near him at the dinner table, with a request to dance, at the same time, introducing him to two young ladies with whom he was sitting. This gentleman having taken the hand of one of them, Marley made his bow with his devoirs to the other, and she at once complying they entered upon the floor, at the same moment, but from the opposite side, with Miss M'Fathom and her set. Ranged along-side each other, the latter lady for the first time beheld Marley, and his vanity, of which it has been seen he possessed a considerable share, prompted him to think, she had looked at him, as much, at least, as she did to her partner in the set. Enlivened with the dance, and from the flattering tales told by his vanity, he handed his fair partner to her seat with a more gay spirit than he had taken her from it. He was also pleased that he now had an opportunity of talking to a Buckra lady; not one of whom had he seen since his arrival in the island, previous to this night. Indeed he sometimes was afraid, that he never more would converse with any lady of his own colour, having already seen numbers who had resided for ten or twelve years in the colony, without ever receiving such a favour as a word from a white lady. His politeness, or gallantry, or good nature, or these qualities altogether united, prompted him to shew every attention in his power, to this his first fair acquaintance; therefore, though he was ignorant who she was, he kept beside the party to whom he considered himself whom what obliged. After the pause which followed the last dance, he again with his partner was in the set, but he did not observe the fair heiress on the floor. When this dance was ended, his small party were accosted by numbers of ladies and gentlemen, who seemed to have much to say, and Marley having shewn his partner every attention which is usually practiced on these occasions, made his bow and left her and her party for a time.

Being thus disengaged, he strolled along the hall in search of Miss M'Fathom, with more elevated spirits after dancing than before; and observing the little ceremony, which many of the gentlemen used in introducing themselves, and talking to the ladies, he determined at all risks to adopt the same method, and make a trial how his familiarity would be taken. He formed his resolution with ease, but he found it more difficult to carry it into practice than it was to resolve and while irresolute he observed a few sets get upon the floor for the waltz, for waltzing has even reached Jamaica. At his moment he saw some ladies, among whom was Miss M'Fathom, enter the hall. They took their seats near the place where Marley was standing, and as fortune to his satisfaction would have it, the heiress happened to sit outside, and consequently nearest to him. He had before observed her surrounded with numerous gallants wherever she went, and as he was aware such would soon be fluttering around her, he might never have another equally favourable chance on introducing himself, if he should let the present moment slip. Assuming a boldness which was not natural to him, in his intercourse with the fair sex, he advanced towards her, making one of his most graceful bows, with an apology for his intrusion, begging she would honour him with her hand for the waltz. At this introduction she smiled, but evidently more in pleasure than in anger, entreating that he would not press her, as she was not partial to waltzing, and seldom engaged in it. This latter part of her excuse, Marley interpreted contrary to what she expressed, though probably in the manner she desired; and having urged the gracefulness of the dance, and how charming she would appear in it, her refusals became weaker and weaker, till she allowed consent to be extorted from her; but, whether it was owning to the appearance and manners of Marley, or to her love of the dance, she herself only knows. Having gained his end so far, he in his very best manner led her from her seat, and while standing conversing with her, till the music commenced, he observed her father, whom he had not noticed since dinner, eagerly looking at him, and as Marley thought, wondering what stranger he could be who was partner to his daughter. But the music having struck up, the waltzing began, when Marley found his fair partner an excellent waltzer, and she had no occasion to find fault with his performance. Among the sets who were dancing, the present pair were the most conspicuous, many of the other pairs being ill matched, consequently they could not shew off to the same advantage as Marley and the heiress. It was also a dance not then very generally known in the island, which in consequence caused a general turn out to behold it, and on casteing a glance around, Marley found Mr. Brotherton and Mr. M'Fathom among the lookers on, and particularly observant of his partner and him. On the waltz ceasing, Marley led the blushing fair one to her seat, and after bringing her some slight refreshment of liquors and fruit, he solicited her hand for a country dance, which she was graciously pleased to grant, saying, however, that she was previously engaged from the first -- that she would decline the second to get time to rest, but that if he had patience to wait for the third he might then have hope. Returning the usual compliments on the occasion, he entered into conversation with her for some short period, and in his opinion, she not only did not fall off in conversation, nor detract from the prepossessing opinion we are led to grant to beauty, elegance, and handsome appearance, as too many beauties on closer acquaintance do, but gained more and more upon him, from her good sense and unwillingness to display the acquirements, of which her manner and speech shewed she was mistress. But seeing Mr. Brotherton and her father approaching in their direction, he made the best apology he could, for detaining her so long from her friends, and walked away, being unwilling to undergo the questions which he was afraid these providers of the entertainment, might probably have thought it necessary to ask.

On passing down one of the artificial shaded walks which ran along the length of the hall, and when nearly opposite an arbour formed in one of the windows, Marley encountered the overseer of Equity Hall who instantly retired into it, beckoning him to follow which he did when the former with an oath exclaimed, "Marley, you have got forward with a vengeance. Who could have imagined or believed, that a book-keeper would have the honour of the hand of so beautiful and so great an heiress to lead through the mazes of the dance? I thought I myself had impudence enough for a whole parish, but you, who seem to have none, beat me fairly -- but I must say without flattery, Marley, you dance well. I have not as yet ventured upon asking any partners, except poor Buckra ladies. But for god's sake, keep your own secret, else I am ruined; for while you danced with Miss M'Fathom, and at the same time so far excelled all the Creole bloods, which, however, I was glad to see, every eye was upon you, and all were enquiring who you were. Of course, they remained as wise after their enquires as they were before -- all were equally ignorant who you were, or where you came from; and though I do not wish to flatter you or to make you vain, I may, nevertheless, tell you, that I overheard many praises bestowed on you by the ladies. But if M'Fathom knew that I introduced a book-keeper, and he danced with his daughter, I should not be an hour longer upon the estate. But, in the name of goodness, where did you learn your dancing, for you entirely outdid the Creole bloods, though many of them were bred at Oxford and Cambridge, and should be Dons at it you know -- as for you, you must have been a stage dancer in your lifetime, or I am mistaken." Marley, in answer, acquainted him, that he had never been upon the stage, and also assured him that he had no occasion to be afraid of a discovery through him; in corroboration of his assertion, informing him, that he left Miss M'Fathom's company, in consequence of seeing her father and grandfather approach, in order to prevent any possibility of a disclosure taking place. The overseer expressed his gladness at hearing this last part of the discourse, which lulled his alarms asleep and completely satisfied him, that no bad consequences would likely ensue; adding, "while you were dancing, I observed the two old gentlemen gazing very attentively at you, and therefore went near them in the expectation of picking up the subject of their discourse, when I heard Mr. Brotherton ask Mr. M'Fathom, who that young gentleman was, meaning you, when the latter said, he had looked at you very particularly, but though your face was perfectly familiar to him, he could not name you nor tell where you came from, but he presumed you belonged to the windward part of the island. Mr. Brotherton mentioned, you were a striking likeness to some acquaintance of his, but who he could not remember at which I went away."

The overseer in continuation, added, "you see how these old Dons can be gulled by seeing a book-keeper dressed like a gentleman, but may I never eat bread, if you do not make a better appearance than most of the Oxford and Cambridge taught buckras. Let them say what they please, even though they knew you to be a book-keeper. And if it were not for myself, I wish to heaven that the mighty Dons and the proud Bushas could only know that you were a book-keeper, it would humble them so completely: for, I cannot help despising those Bushas, who look down upon a poor book-keeper, when they ought to remember they were once such themselves." And after some farther chat, the two agreed as to the time and mode of their departure, and then separated to avoid notice.

Marley avoided mentioning to Fitzhughes that he was engaged to dance again with Miss M'Fathom, dreading that his fears of a discovery taking place might be awakened. He, however, watched the dance, which was led off by that young lady, and a gentleman whose name he did not learn, and at its termination he saw him escort her into one of the side rooms. She did not remain long absent, for soon afterwards, she returned and took her seat beside several of those ladies, with whom he at first found her, apparently to observe the next set of dancers. Our young gentleman being afraid, that this modesty or rather bashfulness might operate to his disadvantage, if he did not seize the present opportunity. He went up to her, and reminded her of the engagement, which she confessed had not escaped her memory. In consequence, he procured a seat beside her, and formed one of the party, whom he found discoursing of a ball, that was to take place in the course of a few weeks in the parish town, at which, from what he heard, they would all attend. Being unaware whether he could obtain permission to be present, he took almost no part in the conversation on this topic, and when the third set were on the eve of commencing, he led the heiress up to the dance, and very soon afterwards the dancers were in motion.

Miss M'Fathom went through her part with spirit and gracefulness, and Marley's vanity whispered him, that she was far from being displeased with her partner. When it was finished, he conducted her into one of the retiring rooms where refreshments await the guests; but, finding that he would not have an opportunity of a moment's private conversation without the hazard of coming into contact with her father, who was very near them, to which he was averse, he apologized for leaving her, and making his bow, departed. He had also an additional reason for withdrawing, for, the hour fixed for his departure with Fitzhughes was elapsed. He hurried to the appointed spot of meeting, where he found the overseer awaiting his coming. They then withdrew in the same unperceived manner as they had entered, and walked over to Equity Hall.

On the path, Fitzhughes bantered his friend on his impudence in again dancing with the queen of the ball, but he seemed happy that he had brought him out unnoticed; probably, determining in his own mind, that he never gain would essay upon such a venture, should another similar occasion occur. On reaching the buckra house, Marley's horse was soon brought to him, when, wrapping himself in his great coat, to avoid the chillness of the morning air, he went off at a gallop to Water Melon valley. Nothing obstructed his ride -- he reached his room a few minutes before the driver fired his whip, previously having unsaddled his horse and turned him adrift. He soon stripped off his ball dress, equipped himself in his book- keeper's costume, and was at the cattle-pen and in the field, as soon as was requisite.

He had reached his home unobserved, for, at breakfast nothing was remarked on it, but Samuels then desired him to go to the corn loft with a few negroes, and a supernumary driver, and shell Indian corn for the day. Though fatigued from want of sleep, Marley was still elated with the bright prospects which fancy whispered he should one day realize, wand with the pleasing idea of the figure which he had made at the joyous scene from which he had not long been absent. There, he was beheld with envy, from possessing though it was only for a transient period, the hand of the fairest and richest lady in the country. But from such a scene and from the flattering hopes which occupied his over sanguine mind, the transition to that of shelling Indian corn, for pigs and poultry with a few sickly hot-house negroes was so immense as almost to dispel all his high-flown illusions and to proclaim that hope told a lie. Though in his present state of thinking it was a degrading and revolting employment it was however one of idleness and ease and he continued observing the negroes and occasionally lending them a hand till shell-blow for a time relieved him. The employment of shelling corn engaged him for a number of days; his brother book-keeper who had come from the mountains having charge of the people in the field.

On one of these days, he was a little surprised at receiving a letter from Mr. Fitzhughes, which ran thus:-

"DEAR SIR,

I WRITE to inform you of the confusion which you have occasioned among the great people on this property, and of the alarm which it has given to myself. You are not aware of the notice which your appearance at the ball has attracted, and which has been vastly increased from your entrance having been unobserved and your disappearance unseen. Our measures were so well contrived and so well executed that all the white folks are on the tiptoe of expectation to learn who you are and every one even I myself have been questioned regarding you, but nothing has transpired to unravel the clue of mystery in which you seem to be concealed. From me they learned nothing, and no person recognized you except one of Mr. M'Fathom's writing boys who had previously seen you with me, and had observed us enter. But him and I being on good terms, he was cunning enough to see the propriety of saying nothing till he had spoken with me. When he did so, I cautioned him to be silent which he has promised and on which I can with safety rely. From him I learnt what follows:-

A great portion of the company assembled, slept on the property, and when met for breakfast, Mr. M'Fathom enquired for you. All looked, but you were not to be found, which occasioned considerable surprise for yours being a strange face in these parts, it was concluded that you must have slept in the house. Upon examination, it turned out that you not only had not slept in the house, but that you had entered, and departed unseen. Questions were put relative to who you were, but all expressed their ignorance. Miss M'Fathom also mentioned that although you had conversed with her, you had not spoken of yourself. Not one with whom you had entered into any conversation, had the least satisfactory intelligence to give and after all the interrogations and answers from Mr. Brotherton and Mr. M'Fathom, as well as of the company present you remained in the same obscurity as when the investigation commenced. Not one of the wise heads ever conjectured that you might be a book-keeper on some neighbouring estate -- no, they all agreed you were a gentleman, but from what place you had come or whither you had retired, it puzzled them to tell.

Breakfast was nearly over before the end of this discusal of a one-day's wonder, when Pluto, an old negro attendant on Happy Fortune, who had been an anxious listener to the discourse, ventured to put in his word of explanation to his massa -- and which explanation was that you were a ghost. A laugh from the company was his reward, in which, however, it was observed M'Fathom did not join; but, many of the party having loudly insisted on Pluto's explaining how he came to think you were a ghost, he answered that old Cuffie, the watchman told him that within two hours of sunrise, he saw old massa Marley's ghost in the shape of a young man muffled up in a great coat, mounted on a fine horse such as old massa Marley used to ride, galloping along the road past Equity Hall. He said, Cuffie was sure it was a ghost for the horse's feet did not touch the ground and the face was old massa Marley's; but though Cuffie wanted to speak, he could not, for his heart came to his mouth. Many of the younger portion of the company laughed at the idea of your being a ghost; but, among the elder part, my informant Tommy, says, some of them looked at M'Fathom, who appeared thoughtful and vexed, and who ordered Pluto to drop such nonsensical series. And shortly afterwards the party broke up, the great part of them departing for their homes.

Ever since the ghost story has formed the chief topic of conversation all around, both among the negroes and the whites and curious tales are told, which are anything but favourable to the credit of M'Fathom; and the negroes on Happy Fortune are all elated about the ghost, which they say portends that a Marley will again be their massa.

If the coincidence of your name being the same as that of old Marley's were known, more plausibility to the speculations on foot, and still greater scope for conjecture would be afforded to all classes hereabout; but, though I am now convinced from your anxiety to be present at this ball, and from other circumstances which now occur to me that you are in some way or other connected with Happy Fortune, I will not be the person who shall blab, since you seem, for reasons of course known to yourself to wish to be under the shade for a time. But for your own sake as well as mine, do not visit here otherwise you will inevitably be discovered and I shall be deprived of a situation. Wishing you prosperity through life, believe me to be,

Yours truly,

W. FITZHUGHES

Marley had often heard his revered grandfather mention that he bore a very strong likeness to his father, but upon this observation he laid very little stress knowing from experience in many instances, that one person often believes himself to fancy a striking likeness in children to their parents, where another can trace none. He, however had frequently seen marked resemblances in the features of some children to one or other of their parents, and he was now much inclined to think that his must resemble his father's, and that very strikingly indeed from the casual glance which Cuffie must have caught of him to give occasion to the story of the ghost. He also fancied that M'Fathom must have seen something in his features which had awakened recollections that were either pleasing to him, or more probably no way conducive to his happiness; otherwise, what motives could influence him to make such special enquiries after a nameless stranger?

CHAPTER VIII

FOR some short time afterwards, field work went on much in the same mode as has been related. Little flogging in the field was required, and no punishments were inflicted at the buckra house, where in general, thirty-nine lashes, the highest number, were given; it being the place of solemn punishment. Happiness reigned upon the estate, and all seemed contented. What can be styled hard work was not required from the negroes, even although they were rather more pushed than formerly, in consequence of the approach of the planting season; notwithstanding, no complaints nor murmurings were heard from them.

It was during one of these days that Marley, the overseer and the first book-keeper set off to the parish town to attend muster. They reached it early, and upon waiting on Mr. Graceson, Marley received his regimentals and accoutrements, which pleased him well; after attiring himself in them, and his horse being likewise properly decorated for the occasion, he rode to the parade ground. On the roll being called, and Marley answering to his name, he was happy to find that Captain Singleton recognized him. He had the additional pleasure of seeing that gentleman minutely observing his every motion, when in the act of going through the different evolutions. When the drill or the inspection was over, he was highly gratified with the approbation of his conduct, which the Captain was pleased to compliment him withal -- although the overseers might have been averse to his riding among them, none of them and endeavoured to play off any tricks upon him. Indeed, most of them happened to have too much occasion to bestow their whole attention upon themselves to have time or opportunity, to make anyone the subject of their diversion. Marley, however, was very glad he had got it over, without having committed any mistake which might have turned the laugh against him.

On their dismissal, Marley left his military dress with Mr. Graceson at which time he enquired of that gentleman if he would have the goodness to purchase for him, a ticket for the ball that was to be held in the town some few weeks afterwards. The latter having engaged to get one for him, the party departed for the valley.

A little after sundown, they reached the buckra house around which they found a number of negroes waiting with a complaint against Hampden, one of the drivers, for using Obeah practices, and by means thereof, causing several of them to become sick, more particularly, Sammy and his wife Thisbe. Hampben, being among them, spoke in his own defence and firmly denied the charge brought against him; but some of the negroes produced the cock's foot, and the head with the comb on it, along with a figure of clay stuck full of pins which had been made and so pierced by him with some other articles all supposed necessary implements for the performance of the Obeah mysteries; and farther several of the people solemnly declared that they had observed him practicing the prescribed incantations to forward his charms. After a pretty long investigation, the proof of Hampden's guilt was found to be quite conclusive, when Marley locked him in the stocks till it would be considered what punishment should be inflicted upon him. From the evidence it appeared that Hampden had a penchant for Sammy's wife Thisbe; but Thisbe being less condescending than Hampden, had wished he had recourse to the African mode of witchcraft to punish her and kill her husband. But as these charms always operate best when the party against whom they are to be used has some knowledge that such are at work, Hampden, made a confident of Fate his companion who as a secret told it to Virgil, and Virgil told it to Sammy. After which Sammy's friend Trin, with Mass and Allick, to make certain of the truth of what they had heard watched Hampden till they were sure they saw him in the act of performing the Obeah rites. In the meanwhile however, Sammy and his wife Thisbe became sick, while Hannibal and his spouse Clarissa began to think they were likewise becoming unwell, and all from the same cause -- Hampden being thought to bear no goodwill towards them.

At supper, this trial afforded some amusement; but Hampden being a good and an attentive negro, and till this time, bearing a fair character, the overseer conceived it would be a pity to trust his case in the hands of public justice, as the law standing on the statute-book makes such a crime death. He therefore thought in this instance he would take the law into his own hands and give him thirty-nine well laid in and cashier him from being any longer a driver. He expressed himself even sorry to go this far, but if something was not done to satisfy the negroes, they might lodge a complaint where Hampden would not be so leniently dealt with. Besides too, the crime is of a very heinous nature, when it is considered that the negroes are so perfectly convinced of the efficacy of these charms, as to pine away in thought and even sometimes to die, by the mere effect of imagination. Seeing this, it certainly would not be doing them justice to let the crime pass unpunished. And, accordingly, next morning, poor Hampden received thirty-nine; and afterwards was sent to the field with a hoe in his hand in place of a whip, and Jerry Sneak was appointed in his room.

The negroes were satisfied with the punishment inflicted, and Sammy and Thisbe became well and neither Hannibal nor his wife Clarissa became ill; and for a short period, everything went on as pleasantly as was usual. Sometime afterwards it was observed that the people betrayed symptoms of discontent, or rather, that they wanted some favour without anyone wishing to be the solicitor. At the buckra house, the negroes secrets of this sort, were generally well known, for a length of time, before they themselves declared them; but in this instance, the overseer was determined that he would let them speak their mind before he would interfere as the favour which they desired was one that he himself could not grant without submitting the same to the attorny for his approbation. It was as it is generally termed in the country, a whim which they had imbibed from the instructions they received from one of their own number, a devotee or a pretended one; but who rather unfortunately bore the anti-Christian name of Tom Paine. For a length of time, he had attended the missionary meetings that were occasionally held in the neighbourhood by which means he thought he had acquired some knowledge of religion and being emulous of mounting the rostrum, he commenced preacher to his fellow negroes, who were less instructed than himself. The discovery of the Obeah practices by Hampden, operated strongly on his mind as notwithstanding his religious knowledge, he implicitly relied upon the efficacy of such charms; being in this respect, equally superstitious with any of those whom be endeavoured to teach. His ponderings on the subject, however, had the tendency to bring to his recollection, some saying which he had heard that the African deity Obi, had no power over those who were baptized. Fraught with such important information as well as anxious himself to become a Christian he inculcated his ideas into the minds of his companions who looked upon him as an oracle of wisdom till they approved of what he said, and became equally anxious with himself to be christened. They thereupon determined to entreat the overseer to have them baptized; but who should inform the Busha was the next question; for Tom Paine declined to do so, being naturally of a timid and fearful disposition; and days were passed over without anyone offering to undertake the commission till many of them despaired of its ever being asked. At last, Trajan was encouraged to make the application and one afternoon after shell-blow, a numerous body of the negroes made their appearance at the buckra-house, to whom the overseer went to enquire what they wanted. Trajan began: -- "Massa, Obeah bad for him poor neger, massa -- him kill poor neger, massa. All massa's negers want massa to hab him buckra priest, kirsten him negers, dat obeah no more him kill, massa. Ebery one neger, massa want to be kirstened in de buckra fashion, massa." Samuels hesitated a little, and then said, "If I should do so, you will be great thieves afterwards." Trajan answered, "No, Massa, him neger, after him be buckra Christian, him no tief neber more, massa;" and as an additional effort to prove successful in his mission, he added: -- "Ebery one of him Babylon negers, massa; him Lilliput negers, massa; him Joppa negers, massa; all, every one of him negers kirstened in de buckra fashion, massa." The overseer not having the power himself to grant their request, told them so; but added that if they would behave themselves well, he would speak to the attorny , to get it done with which promise they went away well pleased.

In the course of a few days, the overseer had occasion to go to the town where among other things, he mentioned the wish of the negroes to be baptized. The attorny replied that he had no objection if the overseer could get it done at half-price; swearing that he never would consent to give four bits a head to any clergyman for performing this rite; but if Samuels could get the reverend gentleman to do so for two bits (fifteen pence currency) for each, he might have it done whenever he pleased and give an order upon him for the money. The overseer being desirous of gratifying the wish of those under him in such a small matter, agreed to apply to the reverend divine, and try what bargain he could drive with him though he expressed his fears to the attorny that that gentleman would not very likely break his charge. "Do as you please," said the attorny , "but I will not allow from the estate more than two bits each to satisfy any such whims of the negroes." Samuels knew well the obstinate nature of the attorny and that his resolves were as unalterable as the laws of the Medes and Persians. Therefore, without any further altercation, he bent his steps to the residence of the clergyman, who bore a good character in the parish. Having found him at home, Samuels opened his embassy and according to his instructions made him an offer of two bits for each negro upon the estate. The parson at first objected to taking less than the statutory allowance of four bits alleging as his reason that it was not fair to curtail his fees saying that the legislature had clipped them fully much already. But Samuels, being anxious to please the negroes pressed him hard to accept the two bits; declaring that if he did not, the baptism would not take place and further urging the smallness of the trouble and the little inconvenience it would put him to as he might take the advantage of an opportunity which he was in the neighbourhood on some other occasion. And after some farther altercation on the part of the clergyman, he at last very wisely agreed to take the two bits rather than lose the job altogether.

The negroes on being informed that they were to be baptized were quite elated and in high spirits at the idea of becoming Christians like the buckras and by the time the parson came upon the estate, Christian names and surnames were fixed for each of the people. In general, they took the surname of the proprietor, attorny , or those of the white people on the property, in place of their first names, however, being the ones in common use as those they were most familiar with, their new or Christian ones, being reserved as a resource for uncommon occasions, if such should ever happen. Many days did not elapse before the clergyman sent notice of the time when he would attend and the negroes were desired to attire themselves in their best apparel, and to be all in readiness on the appointed day. Accordingly, when the parson made his appearance, the people were assembled and placed in rows when the clergyman made them members of the Christian church after admonishing them to be good and to beware and not steal, as also some other matters which went in at the one ear, but unfortunately, as most of the people said, escaped instantaneously out by the other. The ceremony was performed in the course of a short time, in the presence of the white people on the estate, and a large party of overseers from the adjoining properties. After dinner to which the clergyman waited, a negro ball succeeded which finished the day and seemed to afford the negroes rather more pleasure than the baptism; few, if any of them being able to comprehend the greatness of the virtue in a little water and the clergyman's "speakee" a little over them. And next morning jaded and fatigued with the night's dissipation, their former routine of labour commenced. They felt proud, however of being Christians, like the buckras in place of being heathens as the preceding day had seen them; but a considerable time elapsed before they could recollect their new names which was a source of no small vexation to the book-keepers who were considerably teased with the frequent enquires which they made to tell them their Christian names.

From Marley's length of residence upon the estate, he had become pretty familiar with the negroes and they with him. He was incessantly importuned by the pickeniny mothers to take a wife and there was not an individual among them who had not some one of their young female friends to recommend for that purpose. Such recommendation were perpetually sounded in his ears. "Why massa Marley not take him one wife like oder buckras? Dere is him little Daphne, would make him one good wife -- dere is him young Diana -- dere is him little Venus -- dere is him Mary Magdalene, and dere is him Phoebe," besides many others who were all specially recommended. In addition to which much coquetry among the young damsels was displayed and all their attractive qualities were shewn for the same end. But Marley's dislike to the sable colour, (not to say anything of his moral or religious principles), had not been as yet so far subdued as to make him fancy any of the black belles for a partner. The girls themselves however, were in general a very modest and it was seldom and only a very few of them that ever asked, "Why massa not take him one wife like oder buckras?" Marley's love was however otherwise engaged and to one whose charms had more fascination than was possessed by any of the smooth glossy-skinned nymphs who sought to gain his affection; for although they had become Christians, it had no effect upon them in a moral light, more than when they complained of being in want of a religion.

But now since they had become Christians, Tom Paine, who had learned that a missionary was to preach on an estate some few miles distant one Sunday shortly after the baptism, prevailed on a number of the negroes to attend; and, accordingly, on that day a great many of them trudged to the place attired in their Sunday's apparel. It was evening before they returned and the greater part of them in place of being gratified were much disappointed and even displeased at the preacher; so much so that all Tom Paine's rhetoric could not afterwards prevail on many of them to accompany him again. They said that the buckra called them names which originated from the missionary expressing himself in allegorical language in the use of which the negroes were not adept, although they were not altogether ignorant of its application in consequence of being pretty much accustomed to hear themselves called beasts; but as it was always in the way of censure and reproach they had no farther idea of its application having never heard themselves likened to beasts when they were praised or kindly talked to. It seems the missionary had not been aware of this for when discoursing, he frequently made use of the terms in addressing his hearers, of, "my beloved lambs," and "my dearly beloved lambs;" but the Valley negroes not understanding what lambs were, they consulted their oracle Tom Paine who explained to them, "dat him lams, hab be him sheep's pickeninies." The consequence was, they took umbrage at being called sheep's pickeninies and for this reason the great portion of those who attended were determined to listen no more to the lessons of a man who called them beasts. This, therefore, evaporated the desire of the negroes to acquire spiritual information only a few of them afterwards attending the Missionary's preachings.

Tom Paine was exceedingly sorry that his endeavours for the conversion of his companions had failed; and finding that he was unable to persuade them to abandon their resolution, he used sometimes to hold forth to them himself. Whether his exertions were crowned with success, Marley never learned; but he feared his orations tended little to improvement for he observed no alteration in the conduct of the negroes in consequence and from a discourse which he one day overheard, he did not augur that much good would ever arise from Tom's spiritual labours.

The outline of Tom's discourse, ran something similar to what follows:--

"My belobed brederen: -- Dere's Gor Amighty at de top, and de Debble at de bottom. Gor Amighty make all de world, and all de folks in it; him negers, and him buckras. Gor Amighty make de first man, and him called Adam. After day, him make him Adam, him's wife, and him called Ebe; and from him Adam, and him Ebe, all ebery one of de folks, him negers and him buckras, hab be pickeninies. Him Adam and him Ebe, hab lib upon an estate and it called Paradise. It hab be a grandy big estate much grandy better dan Paradise to leeward; and dere was dere, ebery ting good for nyamn, and all de fruit on it, him Adam and him Ebe could nyamn but de forbidden fruit. Now him forbidden fruit good for him neger to nyamn and him Ebe wanted to nyamn it, but him hab be feared till a grandy big serpent, as grandy big as de yellow serpent, opened him's mout and spoke, as if him serpent hab be him neger or him buckra; and told him Ebe to pull some of it and nyamn it, and it would make him Ebe much grandy savey. Him Ebe took some of him forbidden fruit and it good for nyamn and him Ebe gib some of it to him Adam, and de bot nyamned it. Gor Amighty hab be grandy much angry, and him turn off him Adam and him Ebe from de estate of Paradise in de same way as massa de attorney sends away de buckras when dey do much bad. After him Adam and him Ebe hab be turned off Paradise, dey went to de mountains and him Ebe hab two pickeninies him Cain and him Abel. Him Cain hab be afield neger, and him Abel kept de penn. Him Cain hab be grandy much angry at him's working in de field, while him Abel hab only be keeping de cows and de oxen, de horses and de mules, and de sheep and de pigs; and him Cain killed him Abel to get de penn and be no more de field neger. Gor Amighty hab be grandy much angry at him Cain, and him Cain hab so grandy much fear dat hims face hab become white and him hab be de puppa of de buckras. After dat much lang time, all de folks in de world became much bad, and Gor Amighty much angry; and him hab sent a grandy big shower of rain water for forty days and forty nights and drownded all de folks, but him Noah, and him's wifes, and him's pickeninies. Him Noah hab be a sailor and savey dat de great rain hab to come and him made him a much grandy big boat to sail in and to hold him and him's wifes and him's pickeninies and him's beasts; and all de oder folks, and de oder beasts hab all ebery one been drownded. Dere hab be him oder man and him called Joseph. Him's puppa hab a grandy big penn and grandy much sheeps, and cows, and oxen, and horses. Him hab be a grandy rich man. Him Joseph hab be de youngest of all him's pickeninies and him's puppa hab much lobe for him Joseph. Him Joseph's broders hab be much angry at dis, and him Joseph habing be on de penn, and much far away from him's puppa's house, him's broders catch him Joseph, and sell him to de buckras who hab be in de want of neger; for de house neger. Him Joseph hab after dat be sold to de Marshall of de prison in Egypt, not de estate of Egypt to windward, but a grandy big country, as big as de neger's or de buckra's country; and him Joseph hab be one of de prison negers. After dat, him Joseph hab become free, and him hab keep a corn store, and him Joseph hab become much rich. After dat much long time, de corn on him puppa's estate hab not grown, de rain not habing come dat year, and him's puppa and him's borders hab no corn for dem and deir wifes and deir pickeninies to nyamn. Him's puppa den send away him Joseph's broders to Egypt to buy corn and dey hab come to deir broder's store to buy. Dey hab not savey dat de store-keeper hab be deir broder Joseph dey hab sold for de house neger; but Joseph savy dat dey hab be him's broders. After dat, him Joseph hab forgib him's borders for dem selling him for de neger and him tell dem dat him hab much rich and dat it hab be much better for dem and deir puppa and deir wifes and deir pickeninies to come and lib in Egypt dan on deir penn: it hab be a much better country. Den him's puppa and him's broders and deir wifes, and deir pickeninies hab come and lib in Egypt. Afterdat him Joseph hab dead and him's puppa; and de folks of Egypt hab made him's broders, and deir wifes, and deir pickeninies negers and hab make dem work in de field. Dey hab be grandy big gang, and hab for deir massa him oder man, and him called Pharaoh. Him hab make de negers work all too much, and him hab not be de good massa but him hab be much bad to him poor negers. After dat, him negers hab become grandy much angry at deir massa and dey all, ebery one, hab run away from de estate on which dey hab be working. Him Pharaoh hab be grandy much angry at him's negers, for dem habing run away; and him and him's folks, hunt after dem to make dem come back and work in de field. But him negers hab get much far away and when him Pharaoh and him's folks hab be hunting after dem, grandy big water hab come and drowned him and him's folks all ebery one. After dat, him negers hab become free and dey hab be de puppas and de mummas of de folks called Jews, and hab neber more become field negers. Dere hab be him oder man, and him called Samson. Him Samson hab be a grandy much strong man, and him hab killed of de folks called Fillystones, five hundred men, wid de jawbone of a him Jackamarass. And after dat when all de folks hab be dancing in de house like him buckra-house, him Samson pulled down de house and him hab be killed and all de folks at de ball. Him Samson grndy much strong man; de grandy much strong man of all de mans in de world. Dere hab be him oder man, and him called Soloman. Him hab be king of de folks called Jews, de same folks as de Jews on de Bay, but not him Jew Soloman who hab de store. Him savey grandy much more dan all de oder folks, nd him de grandy much savey man in de world. Him hab eight hundred wifes and five hundred concubines, oder dan him's wifes. Him hab be grandy rich man, more grandy rich dan de buckras. Him as rich as de Jew. Dere hab be de oder man, and him called Jonah. Him whale, agrandy big fish, much grandy bigger dan him big shark swallow him Jonah; and him Jonah in him whale's belly dree days and dree nights; after dat, him whale spew him Jonah and him hab not dead. Ders is much oder mans, ebery one, told of in de buckra book, de Bible; and de Bible tells dat all him dat do much good, him get much good and all him dat do much bad, him get much bad. All for de gory of Gor Amighty, for eber and eber. Amen."

About this time, the day fixed for the ball had come, and Marley having procured permission to leave the estate on the afternoon he rode to the town. The ball was well attended; many of those who had been present at Happy Fortune were there, and among others, he observed Miss M'Fathom in company with a large party. He made his obeisance to her, which he flattered himself she received with pleasure; and considering himself as one of her party, he seated himself beside her and occasionally had the satisfaction to dance with her as well as with some of her acquaintances during the evening. He was highly delighted with her conversation; and although he observed that she herself, as well as others of her companions were eager to learn who he was, yet as they obviously felt the indelicacy of making a direct enquiry he easily evaded informing them. An elderly lady, who seemed to be the head of the party scrutinized him very narrowly and appeared anxious to know something about him; but Marley eluding any direct replies to that lady in order to forward her views, invited him to her house which was only a few miles distant from Happy Fortune, whenever he should be in that part of the country. He expressed his happiness at the invitation, and that he would not fail in doing himself such an honour, the very first opportunity but without furnishing any explanation regarding himself whatever. After the morning had rather far advanced, the ball broke up and having seen Miss M'Fathom with her party to their carriages, he bade her and her friends adieu, and rode off for Water Melon Valley having passed one of the happiest nights in his life. He was enamoured of the heiress, and fancied he was not indifferent to her but how to bring about an eclaircissement which might be favourable to his views. He could not imagine; but hope flattered him that time had in store for him happier and more prosperous days. With such hopes, he consoled himself till a few weeks would elapse when he would have another opportunity of seeing his charmer in the same place at another ball at which she promised to be present.

Day was rapidly approaching when Marley reached his home, nevertheless he was equipped in his planter's dress, in sufficient time to see the cattle driven out of their penn. He was just leaving it for the field where he had been working the previous day, when the overseer came to him, and ordered him with his gang to lift the manure out of one of the cattle folds. The wagons were in waiting and with their hoes which supplied the place both of shovels and grapes, the people filled the manure into round baskets, which they carried on their heads and emptied into the wagons. This employment furnished rather an unpleasant sort of a contrast to his evening's amusement in a ballroom among the belles and beaux who composed the aristocracy of the parish. But, as it formed part of his duties, he could not refuse; and therefore went through with it, finishing the same in the course of the day.

A few days previous to this, the party on the estate had received an increase by the arrival of an old gentleman, a captain of a ship then waiting for a cargo. He had been complaining of illness for some time; and being an acquaintance of the attorny 's, that gentleman had advised him to try the benefit of a short residence upon the Valley. It seemed to have a good effect upon him, for he rapidly gained health and strength. With them returned his accustomed flow of spirits of which he was blessed with a good store; and although he was rather satirically inclined, his company proved a most agreeable acquisition to the white people on the estate. As he was an old frequenter of the port from which the produce of the parish was shipped, he was well acquainted with the great portion of the people, and accordingly while he stayed, a great many visitors made calls at the property.

The last Sunday he was to be on the estate, a considerable number of his and the overseer's acquaintances spent the day together; and after dinner, the proper mode of working the negroes, happened to become the topic of conversation. The overseers seemed to think that no mode could answer better than the one in daily practice. Upon which Marley put the question, how the present barbarous mode of working the negroes, by means of drivers with their whips, came into practice? When this old sea captain immediately replied, "I'll tell you that, my good fellow."

"The colonists," said he, "did not learn it from many European nations, having adopted the custom in Europe, nor did they learn it from the ancients, for neither do they seem to have acquainted with the salutary effects of the whip as a stimulus to incite the slaves to work, nor could the lesson have been received from the East Indies for the use of this mild West Indian stimulant is also altogether unknown to the people of that country. I presume there it must have been the invention of some humane genius, or what is still more probable it was introduced by some early colonist possessed of an indolent inclination and sluggish disposition who had received part of his education in some school in the civilized and very humane State of Algiers, or some other of the philanthropic States of Barbary. Having felt and observed the beneficial effects of the whip as an advantageous stimulant when applied to himself, and judging from his own idle propensities, that all men were equally averse to labour, he introduced this system as a praiseworthy, and gentle, and tender, and kind, and above all, a most humane mode of admonishing the black fellows to exert themselves. This my good friends, I conceive, must have been the manner in which your boasted system of managing human beings has been introduced and yet you talk with admiration of the humane and mild treatment of your slaves -- forgive me, I meant servants. A fine character, gentlemen, you give yourselves, and a fine specimen of humanity you shew the world by adopting the very liberal and enlightened customs of the tender-hearted Algerines; but, nevertheless, I must confess, as a stimulus to exertion, the cow skin, or what it is now converted into, the cartwhip of the West Indies, or the shambuc of the Cape, are the most effectual medicines of the sort which I know. But, to you, gentlemen of the West Indies, who are so embued with the milk of human kindness, as to drop tears at a tale of woe, and who even feel pain at the very idea of depriving of life the mosquito which has been gorging itself with your blood, this mode of applying the cow skin in your hands to the callous hides of the negroes is certainly not cruelty, but kindness for it has the beneficial effect of opening the pores of the body, causing a pleasant an agreeable circulation of the blood, and making the black sluggards active. This gentleman, is all well enough to those who are accustomed to it, and a mere nothing to us who are exempted from such a course of medicine because we are white; but believe me gentlemen, there are people in the world not nearly so humane nor enlightened as you are, who have not only the effrontery to tax your system of mildness, but who even go so far as to say that your tender mercies are cruelty."

An overseer here interrupted him with saying, "The system, Sir, which you so highly and vehemently reprobate was not introduced by us who are now living; surely, therefore, no blame can be attachable to us in whatever manner it may have been introduced for it is the only mode of which we are aware of managing our black servants. They too are accustomed to the whip and would not consider themselves benefited if they were forced to adopt new-fangled modes of working according to the taste of those fanatical theorists on the other side of the water. Our servants are happy enough and if no person would interfere, things would go on smoothly and pleasantly, and all would be well."

"No, no," cried the old Captain, "the negroes, my worth Sir, are not yet as callous as the ells to the skinning: they would little regret the loss of the cow skin. It would be a happy day indeed to them if it were to be dispensed with; but as you know that I am no fanatic, I'll tell you the plan, I, as an old frequenter of this country, would adopt: for some reformation in the mode of working must necessarily be made, and that reformation, if it went far enough, might be advantageous to the planters themselves.

"To carry any efficient melioration of the slave system into effect, time will be required; for I think every person in the least conversant with the negro character will acknowledge that the present race of slaves are so accustomed to the use of the whip that in the event of its being at once withdrawn, disorder, sloth, idleness, and quarrelling among themselves would be the issue of this kind and Christian intention; consequently, work would be neglected to the great prejudice of the estates. That, in many instances, the worst disposed portion of the negroes would thus take advantage of a system so favourable to themselves I have no doubt; though at the same time, I am of opinion that the great body would work equally well without as with its application; especially if such were separated from the indolent. I have been for months and months at a time upon different estates, and I have observed that it is only a small portion of a gang who occasionally receive a few strokes with the whip while the greater number never require it. You must confess, however that it is degrading to humanity; and though the negroes who have been always accustomed to such a mode of treatment may a think little or nothing of it, or even that this driving system is proper, yet, to a feeling mind, it is reducing human beings so very near to the state of irrational animals, that it ought if possible to be totally abandoned; besides, the use of it makes you a reproach and a by- word to the virtuous part of your countrymen at home; and, perhaps, in every other part of the word where your mode of management is known, you are considered as men divested of every kindly feeling. There cannot be a doubt in the mind of any thinking and feeling person of the expediency of adopting some measures for managing the negroes without having the brutal whip sounding continually behind them as a propelling power. But, as it will cause a revolution in the ideas of the people although painful to humanity, I must confess, that caution in alleviating even the state of the negroes will be requisite. For if a little were granted to them, they most likely would be for taking more; and thus disturbances might arise, which it would be no easy matter to quell, if they became anything general: probably, all the power of Britain, great as she is, would be unable to allay them if once they had begun. As the system there has prevailed so long, it would be imprudent to say the least of it to abolish it instantly throughout the colony. Single estates might do it where they had docile well-behaved negroes, but the people who have charged of them, in this respect, are the best and ought to be the only judges, however unqualified in other respects they may be; for, it is evident they must be better acquainted with their own negroes than strangers, however otherwise qualified. The system, I would propose would be to form gangs of the well-disposed, and those who behaved well and hold it up as a favour to be introduced into and kept in these gangs where the whip was not used and I think it is very probable, all would aspire to get into these gangs. In this manner, the use of the whip would cease to be required as a stimulant, though retained as an instrument of punishment. I would also instantly drop it in the gangs consisting of children, and bring them up to work without it. This last could be easily done, and the children when grown up, would form as effective gangs without it, as the present gangs are with it, and possibly better; for I have frequently observed that the whip causes stubbornness, and in the way of retaliation, the person who may think himself unjustly struck, endeavours by every means he can devise to skip over his work as much as possible. In my opinion, both these measures might be adopted without any bad consequences ensuring from them. And as a confirmation of this, I understand that on some estates flogging has been discontinued without any bad effects resulting therefrom, but never having been upon any such estates I cannot speak from personal knowledge."

After some farther altercation on this and other subjects, the party dispersed; and the next morning the Captain departed.

CHAPTER IX

THE overseer and the attorny somehow or other could not agree about the management of the estate; the attorny found faults where none existed; and nothing which the overseer could do, although he did all in his power, would please him. But the principal reason which he had against Samuels, was, in consequence of his declaration that the negroes were not able (as was actually true) to hole and plant the quantity of new canes, which the former insisted on; this, and his frequent requests for additional strength, when the proper time would arrive though just and requisite, it was presumed, irritated the attorny so much as to cause him to look out for another overseer. One day, therefore, immediately after shell-blow, a letter from the attorny was brought upon the estate discharging Samuels from his employment, and desiring him to remove from it in the course of the day. The overseer had been long upon the property, and in consequence was naturally averse and sorry to leave it, but having no other alternative, shortly after dinner having bid the white people adieu, he rode to an estate in the neighbourhood, to remain there till he might obtain a situation on some other property. The white people were sorry at his departure, but the negroes, who, like children, are fond of changes, appeared well pleased at the idea of having a new Busha; and although they seemed vexed for the sake of their old Busha at his being ordered away from what had long been his home, it furnished them with materials for a song, and during the afternoon the gangs kept singing,

"Massa turn poor buckra away oh!

But massa can't burn poor neger away oh!"

And, from the manner in which the negroes sung, it was quite evident that they considered the situation of the white people to be worse than their own, in consequence of their being liable to be turned off the estate at a moment's warning; whereas, massa, as they say, cannot turn them away. And in the estimation of the generality of negroes, nothing is so bad as being turned off the property on which they were born and which is their home. All the predilections of their youth -- all the ties which render life pleasing, from associating the ideas of the happy state of childhood, belong to the spot; and what has so many inducements to make them love the estate very naturally induces them to think that the white people must take an equal interest in it with themselves. They, therefore, think that no punishment can equal that of being ordered away -- and when a white man is removed, the negroes feel and pity his desolate condition and think themselves happy in comparison with such a person, because they are under no such apprehensions of being turned from their home, and sent away from their friends and relations and the companions of their youth.

When evening approached, a new Busha made his appearance upon the estate in the shape of a little diminutive looking man. He introduced himself to the white people by informing them that he was in future to be entrusted with the management of the property and as a consolatory pill for the loss of Mr. Samuels, he added that he would endeavor to make them all comfortable and happy. The white people however, although they seemed to welcome him to the estate, felt something very nearly allied to degradation at the very idea of having to obey such a contemptible looking creature as Mr. Adams (for so he was named), bore the stamp of having been molded. Supper being placed on the table, the new Busha endeavoured to render himself as agreeable as possible, but the white people were too much prepossessed in favour of the former overseer to be able to relinquish feelings favourable to him when placed in comparison with the present overseer, whose vauntings of the large crops he would produce from so fine an estate, were considered by those who were better acquainted with the property than he was, to be rather premature. And having risen to depart, the overseer accompanied them to the door, where the drivers were waiting for instructions for next morning's work, which were, that they were to continue the same work in which they had been engaged throughout the day.

Next morning, Marley went his rounds to the cattle penn and to the field at each of which places the overseer presented himself apparently pleased with the number and fine state of the cattle; and the healthy appearance of the negroes of the second gang drew from him encomiums of satisfaction. When the breakfast hour sent Marley to his home, he visited the hot-house to learn whether any of the negroes might be there for medicines, or otherwise unwell; but finding none who required assistance from the doctor, he, along with the first book-keeper entered the buckra-house where they found Mr. Adams and the carpenter seated at the breakfast table. The overseer seemed somewhat surprised remaining silent for a short period, but without making any remarks, he helped them to breakfast. It had always been a hasty meal, and Adams was too taciturn to lengthen its ordinary duration. On retiring, Marley supplied Cleopatra with corn for the fowls, and afterwards walked away to the field to follow his gang of negroes in their daily work.

Some few days elapsed in this manner without the slightest change in the mode of working the negroes being introduced. The system adopted by Samuels was steadily adhered to, with the exception of the new overseer one day telling the book-keepers that there was no necessity for their leaving the field till shell-blow, because, in future, he would send breakfast to them. The book-keepers objected to such an innovation and on their firmly declaring that they would not abide by any other arrangement than what they had been accustomed to, the overseer did not insist on compliance. He foresaw that, if he did, he must part with his book-keepers, a loss which at the moment he could not easily supply.

Matters went on without any visible alteration for some weeks when the little diminutive overseer caste eyes of desire upon a young negress called little Delia, whom he solicited to become, as it is termed, his wife. The book-keepers becoming acquainted with this circumstance, determined by every means in their power partly through frolic, and partly through mischievousness to thwart him in his choice if possible. To obtain the desired end, they accordingly without much regard to truth, gave little Delia such a detestable character of him, that she declined the Busha's intended kindness. On her refusing the offered kindness, the overseer, after having exhausted all his stock of loving and persuasive language, finding that his kindest declarations had not the desired effect upon her, waxed exceeding wroth, and by means of threats of punishment, determined to force her into compliance; but little Delia who had been well prompted, remained so obstinate, that he himself must have thought his suit hopeless.

Delia, on communicating the issue of this love affair to the book-keepers was well rewarded for the spirit which she had shewn; and was desired to disseminate the character which she had heard of the overseer among all her acquaintances in order to guard them from the affection of Mr. Adams. This, it appears, she did effectually, for he could not procure a single one of those who are called decent negro girls, who were upon the property; and in the end rather than want, he took one whose character was far from being blemish. Previous, however to this period, he had often wished to find some fault in little Delia in order to have an excuse for flogging her; but Marley, to whose gang she belonged, uniformly praised her. The overseer was nettled and angry that she was thus enabled to escape the effects of his vengeance; for it plainly appeared he was only seeking a pretense for venting his rage and disappointment through the means of the whip. Having some suspicion however that the white people as well as most of the negroes were aware of the unsuccessful result of his application, he was afraid to venture on punishing her without an adequate cause, knowing well that it would furnish too strong a ground for a complaint to a magistrate to be passed over in silence.

Rejected love turned into hate, rankled for some weeks in the little breast of Mr. Adams, but without affording him any pretext for wrecking his anger upon Delia. It is even probable he began to despair of ever obtaining an excuse for disburdening his wrath upon her, when, by some means or other, he learned that the book-keepers, or at least Mr. Langbey was at the bottom his disappointment and that it was to them or rather to him that he was obliged for the gentlemanly character which had been furnished to the negroes. Mad with rage on receiving this information, he swore that Langbey should not be another hour upon the estate. One of the house boys hearing this contrived to send the latter intelligence to the field of the overseer's determination. On the same being communicated to him, he instantly formed his resolution and returning to his room wrote a line to the overseer tendering his resignation. The overseer who thought he could injure the book-keeper very much by this summary dismissal was exceedingly vexed and disappointed upon finding Langbey beforehand with him; but having accepted the resignation, Langbey packed up his clothes and departed to an adjoining estate where there was a vacancy in consequence of a death to supply which he was instantly engaged.

This latter circumstance did not tend to allay the wrath of the irritated overseer. He was not sparing of aspersions against the alleged improper conduct of Langbey; at the same time maintaining that he and Samuels had been the means of ruining the negroes upon the property by indulging all their idle whims; but now since he had the complete charge of them, he would have work out of them if the cow-skin had not lost its virtue.

Marley however, was retained in the employ not because the overseer bore him any goodwill, but because he thought it would look strange for both book-keepers to be sent off the property at once, at a time too when book-keepers could scarcely be procured; and also, because he was a good penman which the overseer was not. Adams was loud in his complaints regarding the difficulty of procuring such a book-keeper as he wished stating that he once had so excellent a man under him that there was not an ounce of sugar sent to Calibash Estate while he was on the property; but, unfortunately, death and him one day came to such close quarters, that he was relieved from the cares of this world. He said that he had come to the island to follow the profession of a portrait painter but business in that line being in very little demand he took the situation of a book-keeper. He had lost an eye somehow or other, the want of which he supplied with a glass one, whence originated his superiority for when he was awake, he was in the habit of placing his hand over his superficial eye; but when he went to sleep in his chair in the boiling house, he uniformly covered his seeing eye, leaving the other open and uncovered. This caused the negroes who are altogether ignorant of fictitious eyes, to say, "Dat damn cunning buckra, for him one eye sleeps, while toder keeps spell." "The portrait painter," continued the Busha, "was really a treasure upon an estate, none of the negroes ever attempted to steal when he slept, for, they very naturally supposed from always seeing one eye open that while the one went to sleep, the other kept awake to watch them -- but, for a book-keeper --

"He was man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again."

Some weeks passed away before a book-keeper to fill Langbey's place could be found, such sort of white people being rather scarce at that period, owing to its being a time of the year when few white men were imported into the island. Neither the enquiries of the attorny , nor those of the overseer had been successful in providing one, till chance one day caste in the way of the latter, a walking buckra whom he gladly picked up and employed. He was a decent-looking middle-aged man who had been an overseer in a distant part of the island; but had lost his situation through the misconduct of fancying some of the negroes' wives on the estate whose husbands complained to the attorny and in consequence, he was very summarily dismissed. His fault being of a nature which no attorny s or proprietors will tolerate, he found it impossible to procure another place and not having possessed the valuable gift of being provident while possessing employment, his funds which were small soon vanished; and his horse not being very well provided for during his rambling mode of life fell a victim to a complication of diseases originating principally in poverty. This circumstance forced him to take up the trade of a walking buckra, a life the most miserable and unfortunate -- a thousand times more destitute, and more to be pitied than that of any slave in the country. During his peregrinations, he had visited every parish in the island sometimes receiving a little food and shelter from the overseers upon he estates among which he was travelling and not infrequently subsisting on the charity and compassion of the slaves who with more humanity than some of his acquaintances felt pity for the poor white man who had no mother to grind him corn no house to live, nor friends to console him in his distress.

This was the man who was to supply Langbey's place and it was exceedingly fortunate for him that such a situation offered. He was apparently in bad health which in his miserable state of destitution would inevitably have hurried him to the grave; for before he was three days on the Valley, he was attacked by a violent fever from which however, he recovered in consequence of a good constitution aided by the medical assistance and the proper attendance furnished from the estate. If his fault was originally great, his after-sufferings and misery amounted to a severe punishment; and surely they expiated and atoned for his misconduct sufficiently to allow him once more to be received into the place of society where he would be enabled to gain a livelihood by means of his own exertions and industry. And from his after-conduct, this man proved that the confidence which was replaced in him was not misapplied, for he turned out to be industrious, and became a valuable servant.

The overseer, with all his imagined skill, found as Samuels was persuaded that the negroes were not so strong in numbers as to be enabled to perform the whole work upon the estate with the added labour of planting the additional canes which the attorny insisted on being put into the ground. He made no alterations upon the mode which had prevailed for a number of years preceding. The negroes wrought in the same manner in which they had been previously accustomed and so far as regarded the changing of the overseer only in name. But how he was to fulfill his promises to the attorny of making a larger crop than formerly, no proofs were yet visible. One day at dinner, he reluctantly confessed what all the other white people were long before convinced of, that it would be requisite, nay, it would be altogether indispensable to hire a jobbing gang for some weeks. This furnished no ground of surprise to the hearers for it only was what had been anticipated; but the overseer felt very much averse to communicate this indispensable necessity to the attorny being well aware that that gentleman had displaced Samuels for not acceding in opinion with him in respect to the capability of the negroes to produce larger crops from the estate than they did. Poor Adams felt that he would look strange when he confirmed the opinion of his predecessor Samuels. But, the planting season having already commenced while a considerable portion of work still remained to be performed among the ratoons prevented the people from being employed in planting for at least a fortnight to come. The overseer had no other alternative than to inform the attorny, or in all probability to make a worse crop than Samuels had made. Accordingly, however unwillingly and however galling it must have been to him notwithstanding his assurances that help would not be required, he proceeded to the residence of that gentleman and putting the best face on the matter of which it would admit he pleaded hard for the assistance of a jobbing gang for four or five weeks. The attorny was inexorable; he would not allow that there was a necessity for hiring more people when he had already enough under him -- he insisted on the whole property being wrought by the overseer with his present strength and in consequence, Adams had to return without accomplishing his object.

The overseer accordingly gave instructions to the drivers to perform a certain quantity of work each day by means of which he calculated that more work would be got through in a given space. This mode of tasking the people did well enough for a few days; but, as if fate was determined to thwart the overseer and the attorny , the first week had not elapsed when no less than three of the strongest of the negresses stated that they were with pickeniny and the doctor having corroborated their statement, they ceased working -- a slave woman in that condition being freed from till a month or two after her accouchement. This was only a prelude to the impediments which contributed to obstruct the overseer's calculations for the wet season soon setting in, several of the negroes complained of sickness, and in consequence were sent to the hot-house. Each of these circumstances had the tendency to weaken the gangs already too weak for performing the work required and in addition to these in calculated incidents, the wet weather considerably retarded the forwarding of the work among the ratoons. Besides too, the people became very much dissatisfied at being put off their ordinary routine of working. They were of a race and in that stage of society in which men are strongly bigoted to what they have been accustomed to from their youth upwards. Innovations on their habitual manner of labour was thought by them to be oppression; but Adams having imagined that the work could not otherwise be got through than with this alteration of tasking each gang to perform a given quantity in a day, he insisted without any regard to the sentiments or discontent of the negroes on its being done. Though, in comparison with their ordinary work, it was laborious, the negroes complained more of the circumstance of being tasked than they did of the additional labour saying, "Dat it hab no be good for him neger to see what work massa hab for him to do. Him neger should work as him negers ebery day work. It bad for him neger to savey what him always hab to work." In this manner they expressed their disapprobation -- they did not complain of the quantity, but only of the mode and that solely because it was at variance with their former habits and in consequence they could not reconcile themselves to the change. It was in itself a harmless innovation, but Adams was probably wrong in having recourse to it knowing as he well did the prejudices of the people of whom he had the charge against any such infringement upon their daily customs. He should have reflected for a moment that the negroes have their prejudices and their preferences as strong if not more so than the great mass of any nation whatever and that to adopt modes in opposition to old customs will as soon cause discontent among slaves under the superintendence of the lash as among those who are under no such controlling power.

In his resolves, it was Adams' foible to be positive. The negroes, however unwilling, were obliged to perform their allotted task which they did not accomplish without much grumbling at the Busha. The women were the organs through whom the discontent of the gangs was expressed; because entertaining less fear of a flogging than the men they were more bold and open in their murmurings and in shewing their dissatisfaction. Few of them in comparison with their numbers underwent punishment though many times richly deserving it. This mode of working continued for a week or thereby without its being apparent that the people could perform the required labour for when the days happened to be very wet, or even when there was only a trifling shower, the negroes if they did not run for shelter stood bolt upright with the intention of keeping themselves dry and for the time work ceased; and it was useless to endeavor to drive them from a custom acknowledged by ages, for they would not then alter their position, do what you would till the rain was over.

One day after the space allotted for dinner had elapsed, the overseer visited Marley and his gang during a drizzling shower (a circumstance rather uncommon in Jamaica) when he observed the pickeniny mothers coming to the field. There might be six or eight of these mothers who were allowed ten minutes additional to the other negroes to come to the field in the morning and in the afternoon. They generally however took a little more than the prescribed time but on this afternoon whether it was owing to the rain or some other cause which prevented them they were considerably later and the overseer who had once before checked them for a similar fault now seemed determined to make an example of them. He therefore, without any preamble being equally aware with Samuels that the negroes don't like speakee and floggee too, ordered them to be laid down one after the other when each received the gentle admonition of nine lashes. At first they were indignant at the idea of receiving punishment saying "day de Busha floggee them for him's pickeniny mummas getting pickeninies for a massa," meaning the proprietor. They were indeed very little hurt; but being indignant against the overseer, for the pain which as they conceived he had made them unjustly suffer, they reviled him with every approbrious epithet which the talkee talkee slang dictionary would have contained had it been written. The overseer though abused with this most scurrilous language lengthened out by the true Creole drawl enough in all conscience to have provided the patience of a Job, bore it for a short time apparently without concern; but his choler at last getting up he hurried to his mule; the whole gang immediately on his back being turned joining in the usual chorus on such occasions, of, "I don't care a damn, oh! I don't care a damn, oh!"

Next morning, the overseer was with the gang as soon as Marley. He appeared as if determined to observe himself that the negroes turned out pointedly to their time in order that he might have the work of cleaning finished in the course of the week, preparatory to commencing the planting of new canes. Unfortunately, seven or eight of Marley's people were late and these were chiefly old men and women. As they come in, the overseer ordered them to be laid down and punished. Each of them received a dozen of lashes. Marley could not help feeling pity for these unfortunate and truly miserable creatures, the most of whom were from their age apparently tottering on the brink of eternity. They sang out repeatedly for mercy, but the overseer was relentless; notwithstanding their withered posteriors were staring him in the face shewing them to be objects of compassion more than of punishment. Finding that their most compassionate and importunate exclamations were unable to move his tenderness and that the driver continued using his whip several of them amidst the cries under the torture of the heavy lash, exclaimed, "No man pities him poor old neger, but Massa above," meaning God. What rendered it still more distressing to Marley whom custom had not yet rendered callous to such sights was the piteous aspects of the children of several of them who were spectators of their mothers; and fathers; galling and degrading sufferings without daring to complain. The last who was laid down was the mother of the overseer's boy, one of the youngest of the whole. She also very naturally pleaded for mercy and in this plea, she was aided by her son, who no doubt thought he was entitled to use more liberty with the Busha than the others crying for forgiveness for his mumma. Finding that their conjoined importunities were ineffectual, he furiously sprung at the overseer as if he would force him to comply and before the latter was aware of his intention, his face was scratched till the blood followed. She notwithstanding, received her dozen. But although the Busha must have pretty keenly felt the smart of the scratches on his face and was evidently enraged, it seemed however that even he felt indignant at the idea of ordering a boy of twelve or fourteen years of age to be punished merely for shewing the strong and natural affection be bore to his mother, and which we in this country should so highly commend; he therefore instantly mounted his mule and rode off, the boy holding on as usual by the tail cheered with the customary song, of, "I don't care a damn, oh!" The overseer's anger had nearly evaporated, before he reached home, for his boy only received a cuff or two on the side of the head and an admonition to behave better in future under the pain of being placed in one of the gangs as a field negro.

Although punishments may be and indeed are necessary, will any person have the hardihood and unfeelingness to affirm that no better mode can be adopted than that mothers and fathers should be punished in such a degrading and beastly manner in the presence of their very children -- that wives should be thus punished in the presence of their husbands, and husbands in the presence of their wives, or children in the presence of their parents. If any person after placing himself and his own kindred in a similar situation and the love and affection of the negro parent and child are as deeply and strongly rooted as that of the whites can tolerate this usage he must be possessed of feelings very different indeed from the generality of mankind, let him be heathen, infidel, Hindoo, or Christian.

Shortly after the above scene was acted, Marley's people came near to a gang belonging to an adjoining estate being both working that morning at the extremities of their boundary, and were now in sight of each other. Knowing that his people would work equally well without as with him, Marley went and accosted the book-keeper in charge of it to chat a little and kill time. He found the book-keeper to be the old dragoon, who has been already mentioned and after the compliments of the morning, Marley remarked to him that he did not hear the whip going so regularly on his property as formerly. "No," says he, "we now use it more sparingly; but I think from what I heard yesterday, and this morning, you are in a fair way of following our late example; but your Busha should beware for perhaps he'll get over the fingers as ours has." "What was the cause?" asked Marley, "for I did not hear of it." "I do not well know," answered the book-keeper," "but one day last week he was with the magistrate of the town on what account we have not yet learned; be it what it may, since his return the whip has found in comparison with former custom very little employment."

"But as this is the second time within these twelve months and the first time as you will remember, was an ugly business though the Busha was not to blame either, so much as our doctor, he now requires to be cautious." On Marley expressing himself that he had not heard of it, as it probably occurred before he came on the Valley, the dragoon added, "I dare say it did, for it was earlier in crop time than your coming. It was this. It was my morning's spell in the boiling-hours, when Sancho, a pretty strong middle aged negro was there as one of my people. He might have been an hour in the boiling-house, when he came to me saying that he felt very sick and as I knew he was not a lazy negro, I told him to go to the hot-house. Shortly after the overseer came to me enquiring if I had sent Sancho to the hospital when I at once said I had in consequence of his complaining of sickness. The overseer remarked, 'he does not look as if he were sick; but since you have sent him, I will let him remain till the doctor comes his rounds.' The doctor made his appearance about breakfast time, when he examined Sancho and declared him to be in good health. On hearing this, the overseer ordered him to be laid down and flogged for endeavouring to skulk, after which he was sent back to me. He had not been with me above two hours before he again came, complaining that he was so very unwell, that he could not continue at work; I therefore a second time desired him to go to the hot-house. About dinner time the overseer made his appearance to learn why Sancho was again in the hot-house, when I told him. Says he, 'I believe he is skulking for he looks in as good health as I do; but since you have again thought proper to send him, he may wait till the doctor comes in the morning.' In the morning, the doctor as usual came, and after looking at his tongue and feeling his pulse, sill pronounced him to be in the very best state of health and that he was a skulker; and in consequence poor Sancho was again flogged and sent to me. An hour did not elapse before he once more made a similar complaint to me of being unable to work, when I for the third time sent him to the hot- house; and the overseer shortly afterwards coming in, I informed him of what I had done, and of my conviction that he was really not well. He was angry, but said nothing, leaving me to go to the hot-house, and there on Sancho's steadily persisting to him, that he was actually very ill, he was allowed to remain. I could observe the overseer was somewhat concerned during each of the times I saw him afterwards throughout the day probably thinking he had acted wrong in causing him to be flogged for Sancho was not one of those who were in the habit of complaining without a reason. Next morning, the doctor on doing his rounds examined him very narrowly and a third time, boldly and ignorantly, pronounced him to be feigning sickness. The overseer was present, but to his honour and credit be it known, said, I hope to God, doctor, you are right in your opinion, for Sancho is not a daily complainer. The doctor however arrogantly and with an ill-timed self-conviction which betrayed his ignorance of his profession in the most shocking degree, persisted in declaring that he was convinced that Sancho was free of any disease, and only sulky for being prevented from skulking. The self-opinionated doctor whose behavior in this instance was surely degrading to his profession then went away disregarding as if in contempt everything that poor Sancho could urge in his own behalf; but, notwithstanding the doctor's positive opinion, the overseer allowed Sancho to remain in the hot-house, and at dinner sent him some soup and meat from his table. All this time Sancho indeed looked well, and no appearance of disease was visible upon him, but in the middle of the following night, some person in the hot-house alarmed the watchman who in consequence went to learn the cause and was told that Sancho was dying. The watchman immediately awakened the overseer who instantly dispatched a negro on horseback express for the doctor which caused him very soon to make his appearance; but in less than an hour after he came as if to spite him for his arrogance -- his want of skill and his own little vanity in upholding his former declared opinion without regarding the entreaties of the unhappy negro, poor Sancho breathed his last.

"The two were in a pretty dilemma, but the surgeon had most reason to be alarmed. The overseer however sent a negro with a letter to the attorny to send up the coroner; and at twelve o'clock, that gentleman with a jury and several surgeons were upon the spot. The doctors who opened the body gave out that Sancho died of a disease which had been upon him for a length of time. And I believe, on this occasion, something neither very pleasant nor honourable either to the doctor or the overseer was said by coroner who expressly cautioned them in regard to their future conduct, at the same time telling them that he would keep an eye upon their actions.

"Had the doctor been in a regiment and behaved as he did in this instance, he would not have been so quietly or easily passed over; but for our doctors here, they are truly curious subjects, and I myself have several times thought that I might make an equally good one with many of them. Unfortunately for me, I can neither read nor write; otherwise I would say to some distant parish and satisfy myself of the justness or unjustness of my supposition by commencing the professional gentleman, for I understand the practice to a tee. I have now made up the medicines upon various estates for a long time; but as I cannot decipher, or rather do not understand the whips and pot-hangers which they make in the book prescribing the doses of medicine, I take a look at the negro when he comes in and if he seems very ill, ipecacuanha I know is the certain prescription. If not very ill, glauber salts or calomel, according to the apparent case, of which I can easily judge; and if it be for jigars (chigoes), whereby their feet are very sore and proud flesh appears, then I know bluestone is the certain thing. For a certain other distemper, which sometimes occurs, I am up to treating it, as well as themselves. But, to prevent mistakes in the doses, I take a peep into the book to look for the mark affixed to the prescriptions, and whenever I find the mark of a small weight, from long practice, I know what articles the different weights are for, then I take the like to weigh the vomit powder and calomel and from experience, a man getting more than a woman, and children according to their ages; and I never yet was challenged for being wrong. When they are not cured at the first, and are weakly, bark and wine is the following medicine, and so far as my knowledge extends, no other drugs are required or used by the Jamaica doctors with the exception of casteor oil, which, when prescribed, the patient is told to go and drink some of it -- the negroes themselves making plenty of that article. For sores, diaculum is what we use, and that is generally found to be sufficient -- and this knowledge is all that a doctor requires, or possesses, or at all events employs upon an estate; for no other substances too my knowledge are administered. And as for bandaging, I have seen few who are so good as myself having had more practice than most of them; for when I belonged to the army, I assisted in the hospital for a long time. In short, a Jamaica doctor's routine is pretty much like our own, one thing today and one thing always."

Marley went away, laughing at the old soldier's estimation of the medical character; but he could not help thinking that there was too much truth in what the veteran book-keeper advanced, so far as he saw practiced on the Valley, but, for the ignorance of a few, it would be very unjust to tax the whole body of medical gentlemen in the island among whom there are many who would confer honour on any country.

The punishments in the field before stated, appeared to have a salutary effect, for no others required the whip that week and by the expiry of it, the work was so far advanced, as to admit of beginning to plant on the following one, with a description of which we will commence a new chapter.

CHAPTER X

THE period of planting is the season most abhorrent to the negroes, and it is the work which they all uniformly detest as being the most severe which they experience. On some estates there is more labour of this kind than on others, as may be premised from the following detail. Canes after being planted furnish juice capable of being profitably boiled into sugar for more than one year according to the nature of the soil or other causes. In some of the islands and even in some places Jamaica, only two crops are obtained that from the first planting is termed the crop of plants and the second that of ratoons; on others, two crops of ratoons; and on some, as on the Valley, third ratoons, or four crops are obtained from the same planting, and on seaside estates a number of years, even from ten to twenty. It is evident from these premises that on estates where carry ratoon well, there is less labour in planting, than on those where they ratoon ill, exactly in the proportion in which they ratoon.

Notwithstanding the great improvements which have been made in the United Kingdom during the last forty or fifty years in agriculture, and in agricultural instruments, and the vast difference in the quantity and quality of the produce raised in the country, unfortunately the West Indians have taken no lesson from the improvements, or so very little as to be scarcely worthy of notice. At this moment, to the disgrace and scandal of the white West Indians as a civilized race, agriculture as a science may be said to be in its infancy for it is yet at its lowest ebb. It is neither more nor less than that of a race of savages or barbarians. It is even impossible, it could be worse if the ground were cultivated in any shape. No improvement in the mode has been adopted since the first period of settling the sugar colonies. It is the same now as it was then, and perhaps no country connected with Europe during the same time has remained stationary in the manner of cultivation with the exception of those countries which the Europeans have wrought with slaves. Why the progressive state of mankind in agriculture should have had no effect in the West Indies, it is difficult to resolve unless it is to be attributed to the illiberal prejudices of the whites against altering old modes though shewn to be erroneous. But it is the fact and although a more beneficial system has been pointed out to them and in many instances proved to be advantageous; the selfsame routine of ignorant and barbarous management is still continued; and it is probable, will continue till absolute distress forces them to adopt improved plans and fortunately for the negroes this period is approaching with gigantic strides.

The unknown implements of agriculture upon an estate are the plough, the spade, the grape, the harrow, the rake, the scythe, the reaping-kook, and the wheel-barrow -- and every other instrument of husbandry, except the hand-hoe, the bill-hook for cutting canes and brush- wood, the knife for cutting grass, and the basket. With these, the rudest of implements the farming work of an estate is performed; and that too under the direction of a civilized people in the most civilized of ages, and in direct opposition to the well-known fact, that the unknown implements on a sugar plantation could beneficially employed in cultivating nine-tenths at least of the estates in the islands under cultivation -- but more of this hereafter.

On Monday morning, the whole negroes of both gangs commenced holing with the hoe, and the black tradesmen were on the ground together with the overseer and the two book- keepers to assist in carrying the lines so that the holes might be regularly dug. The roots of the old ratoons had previously to be taken out, and afterwards a hole formed about two feet and a half square and about six inches deep for each new plant. This whole process of excavation was performed with the hoe alone, two negores being placed to one hole as nearly matched as possible, a strong negro having for his partner a weak one; but all had to perform the same quantity of work, and in the same time in order to keep them inline; consequently a female or weak person had to dig nearly as much than ordinarily laborious; but though the people were not much hurried, as the day advanced they visibly became fatigued. After a week or five days of this kind of labour, very distressing to the people, few acres indeed were gone over, although there were rather more than a hundred negroes employed, one day with another digging only these holes in the ground. Had the ground been previously tilled with the plough, little labour in comparison would have been requisite in forming these holes and an amazingly greater quantity of them could have been made in one day than it was possible the people could effect in three or four in the manner in which they worked.

An interval of two days, one for themselves for working their own grounds and one for Sunday, having elapsed, next commenced with putting the canes into the holes already formed. Manure had been carted as near to the sides of the field as could conveniently be done. To carry it to the required spot was a task of the negresses and weak negroes who with some little help at the manure heaps had to fill their baskets and then carry them on their heads at a pretty smart pace to those who were planting the canes and empty them into the holes. This employment of bearing the manure, none of the carriers at all relished; but it had to be performed, and though done with reluctance was got through; the stimulus of the whip, and the daily encouragement of a draw of rum, effecting wonders. Had the people been furnished with wheelbarrows, they could have performed this work with ease.

From a couple of weeks' trial of strength, it was plainly apparent that although the people even could continue to perform the same quantity of this sort of labour for the eight or nine remaining weeks of the planting season, the work required could not then be accomplished. Seeing now that it was absolutely impossible to fulfill the instructions of the attorny without additional strength and from experience, knowing that written applications answered no good end, the overseer again went to the town to apply personally and endeavor to accomplish his purpose. On meeting with that gentleman, his reception was very cool; but nevertheless, he had the pleasing satisfaction and more than ample recompense for the attorny 's coolness of learning that already a jobbing gang had actually been engaged to hole at a certain rate per acre and which gang would be on the property in the course of a few days. Upon receiving this intelligence, Adams bade adieu to the attorny and returned home quite overjoyed and as soon as the negroes learned the good news, they were equally glad with their Busha and all grumbling among them ceased.

With the jobbing gang appeared another and anew view of slavery, for if slaves settled upon an estate can be said to be unhappy, those jobbers then must be miserable. The very negroes upon the property pitied the strangers, feeling that in comparison with them they were comfortable and happy. They could not be forced from their homes and compelled to travel to distant places but had only to work at their own door and for their massa; while these poor wretches could scarcely be said to have a home or a house. The jobbers too looked poor in flesh, though otherwise in good spirits, and being accustomed to harder labour than the Valley negroes, they holed faster than they could, number for number. This acted as a stimulus far more effectual than the whip; for long before the planting season terminated, the estate's people surpassed the jobbing gang even although they were often withdrawn from the holing to plant. This important part of the business was not entrusted to the strangers, or in fact they were only engaged to hole that being the most severe work which is required to be performed on an estate, though carrying of manure is bad enough.

While such proceedings were furnishing full employment to the people on Water Melon Valley, time had winged away till the day of the ball approached. Immediately after shell-blow, on asking, Marley obtained leave to go to the town, having got into the good graces of the overseer. Without waiting for dinner, he mounted his horse and after a hard ride arrived in time to dine with Mr. Graceson in whose house he found several gentlemen from the country who had come to the town on the same errand as himself. And after passing a few pleasant social hours together, the whole prepared for the entertainment and shortly afterwards were in the ballroom.

A large company was assembled and to Marley's joyful surprise, he observed amongst them, Richard Jefferson and Edward Ogleby two of his school fellows, now ensigns in a regiment then stationed in the parish. They had been very intimate in their young days being the sons of acquaintances of his grandfather, and this unthought-of meeting gave him additional pleasure not having the slightest idea that they were in the island at the time. He instantly advanced towards them, and after the immediate astonishment, and the first and warm cordial salutations with which youthful companions after the lapse of several years, meet unexpectedly and in a foreign country were over, the three were extremely happy at this unexpected meeting in a distant land. While happy in each other's company, and each in his turn engaged in telling the manifold adventures which he had encountered, Marley observed Miss M'Fathom with a party of ladies and gentlemen make their entrance. He joyfully perceived them bending their steps in the direction where he and his companions were standing. On their near approach, he instantly went up and accosted them and from the smile which Miss M'Fathom bestowed on him, and the pleasing manner in which she replied to his kind and pressing solicitations concerning her health since he last had the pleasure of seeing her, he flattered himself that so far from being forgotten, he had engaged her thinking moments at other times than the present since their former meeting. Elated with this fortunate reencounter, and being naturally possessed of buoyant spirits in the vanity of his heart, he introduced the two redcoats to her. They shewed evident symptoms of surprise at his good fortune in being familiar with so beautiful a girl, and one in the company of those of the first rank and fashion. Marley was somewhat acquainted with the rest of the party from having been in company with them at the last assembly as well as at Happy Fortune. He felt no hesitation in accompanying them to their seats; he therefore with his two young friends, joined the party and from the conviviality with which they were treated, they had no occasion to think they were intruders. After a moment's reflection, Marley distinctly enough perceived, that the meeting with the ensigns would have the certain effect of disclosing his name; but now, since he had living witnesses upon the spot to vouch for his identity, he was sensible a more opportune moment could never arrive.

As Marley had anticipated, they had not been many minutes seated before he was addressed by his name which was overheard by everyone of the party. This drew a general gaze towards him, the same probably bringing to their remembrance the story of the ghost promulgated by Cuffie. Miss M'Fathom, apparently unconscious of any connection of her father with any person of the name of Marley, smiling and innocently, said, "Why, Mr. Marley, did you make such a mystery of your name?" But Marley observing an elderly lady, who was the matron of the party eyeing him narrowly and attentively, and with evident anxiety listening for his answer he evaded the question with remarking that he never was fond of being the herald of his own name. Miss M'Fathom shewed herself satisfied with his answer, but not so the old lady for she involuntarily shook her head expressing as much as if she had said such evasive information was not enough for her. As for the younger portion of the party they knew little of old Marley; and, therefore gave no heed to his explanation. A motion for the dance being made by a group of the assembly forming themselves on the floor, prevented any farther remark on the subject; for Marley arose, and led Miss M'Fathom to her place, followed by several others of her party together with the two ensigns who had readily obtained partners for themselves from among the gay group.

The dance terminated as most dances usually conclude with the party being desirous of a little relaxation though in the warm latitudes, the ladies seldom desire it finished so soon as most of their partner. When the party had gained their seats, all were in a state of the liveliest animation and joyful happiness, and Marley could not from the manner in which he had been received and afterwards entertained by the fair heiress, prevail on himself to doubt that he had obtained an interest in the breast of the choice of his love and that if he had only her consent to gain she would not be very implacable. Dancing was resumed again and again throughout the evening. More persons present than Marley thought, from their manner and from the regard bestowed upon the young officers by some of the Creole damsels, that they were desirous to obtain their favourable opinion, and that with a little attention and a few gallantries on the part of the young soldiers, more than two of them would not be averse to join hands with them for life; so attractive in the eyes of a young lady is the dress of an officer, especially when united to anything like a handsome figure possessed of a little gayety.

While this party were so happy and not concerning themselves with any other, their cheerfulness and happiness were suddenly dispelled by some seated behind them who was asked if he knew who and what the happy partner was who had danced so often with Miss M'Fathom during the evening. This son of envy exclaimed so loud as to be heard by all around, "I do not know his name, but he is the foppish book-keeper who rides in the troop." Such a thunderstroke of an answer, rung in the ears of Marley, causing him instantly to turn round to discover from whom this unthought-of explanation came; but he could not fix his suspicions on anyone, the whole of them being strangers to him. The effect of such an explanation operated much in the same manner as if the blast of hurricane and whistled through their ears -- all were mute -- the eyes of the strangers around were directed towards them, even Miss M'Fathom blushed of a more deep tinge than any of her companion. Marley who never once imagined that any odium could attach to a person because he was learning the business of a planter, the most useful and as such the most reputable profession in a sugar colony would have laughed it over; but seeing the discomfiture which it occasioned his face became as if scarlet, and in place of making any attempt to obviate what had been said, he did not know how or where to look so many countenances were scrutinizing him. Fortunately, however, several of the parties had already withdrawn which furnished the old lady, who has been mentioned with a pretext for leaving the room as it was now late. This pretext was instantly acceded to by all the young ladies. No entreaties of Marley or he ensigns could prevail on them to stay a little longer, and when they were retiring into a side room to equip for their departure the ladies as well as the gentlemen of the party, made Marley a distant kind of a forbidding bow; and to complete his affliction, he observed Miss M'Fathom assumed more dignity than he thought she was capable of when she bade him good night and in such a tone as if she desired it might be the last words that might ever pass between them.

To the ensigns who understood nothing of all the confusion, the abrupt departure which followed, seemed incomprehensible; for the expression of Marley's being a book-keeper seemed to them to convey no reproach and the latter was not only unwilling but actually unable to satisfy their enquiries. At this conjuncture, Mr. Graceson having seen that Marley was the object of general notice from the abruptness of the departure of his former companions and learning the reason, approached him and having inserted his arm within his, they paced though the room engaged in conversation. He kindly did for the purpose of shewing to the company that though he might be a book-keeper, he was a gentleman, and far from being unbefriended. The officers also accompanied them and before they retired, Marley was no longer the subject of remark.

Bidding the officers adieu, Marley went to Mr. Graceson's house to pass the remainder of the night. He endeavoured to find repose in a state of forgetfulness; but galled with what he considered an unjust insult, sleep was a stranger to his pillow. He reflected on his friendless condition: with a purse waning low and what was doubly galling, his love wounded by the only object he ever doted on, and all his flattering hopes dispelled by a breath from a stranger heightened as it was by being at a moment when his imagination teemed with the certainty of a return of love from her he adored. But sober reason coming to his aid, he determined on leaving the situation of a book-keeper to seek what was esteemed some more honourable employment and endeavor to make friends to assist him in obtaining his own. In this mood, the appearance of day called him from his couch. After the compliments of the morning, Marley put the professed friendship of Mr. Graceson to the test by informing him that he disliked his situation and would feel obliged if he could procure him that of an attorny 's clerk -- not a law, but a managing attorny . This new situation which he desired he hoped would give him with the little information he had already acquired a sufficient idea of the method of managing an estate should he ever be so fortunate as to recover Happy Fortune. Graceson very kindly said that he could easily procure him such a place, at the same time adding that it was rumoured Mr. Singleton's clerk was on the eve of leaving him to commence merchant; but he would learn in the course of the day whether or not this was true. If it was so, he would make application and he could assure him of the situation, if no other person had already obtained it. In consequence, it was agreed that Marley should immediately return to Water Melon Valley to tender his resignation, obtain an order for payment of his services and leave the estate either in the evening or next morning to learn the issue of Mr. Graceson's enquiries. After breakfast he accordingly rode towards home which he reached a little before shell-blow.

The overseer saw him approaching and with marks of anger on his countenance was on the eve of venting his vengeance upon his book-keeper for his long absence when he was silenced and disappointed and his anger changed into amusement on Marley's telling him he had come for the purpose of intimating, that he would no longer be a book-keeper. On hearing such an unexpected declaration, Adams expostulated with him on the impropriety of leaving the estate when he was so successful in acquiring the requisite information which would insure him an overseer's situation in the course of a couple of years. Marley however, remained firm to his purpose telling him that he was completely tired of his present mode of life and that he was determined to have recourse to an employment more congenial to his previous habits. The overseer finding his resolution was not to be shaken, furnished him with the certificate of the period he had been on the property at the same expressing his sorrow to part with him and telling him that he would be happy to see him upon the estate every time he was in that part of the country.

He remained during the day but next morning having bade adieu to his brother book-keeper and the carpenter, he departed from the estate accompanied some few miles on his road by the overseer himself who frequently expressed he regret he felt at his departure. But having also given him the farewell salutation, they parted with the usual benediction from each side of God bless you and the overseer returned to the estate, while Marley rode to the town. On meeting with his friend Mr. Graceson, he was welcomed with the pleasing intelligence that he had procured for him the situation of clerk to Mr. Singleton, and that he was expected to be at Singleton Hall in the course of the day. He made his preparations accordingly, and in the cool of the afternoon travelled to his destination where he arrived about the time the family were settling down to tea. Mr. Singleton accosted him in his usual friendly manner, and introduced him to Mrs. Singleton, a pleasing English lady who again introduced him to the children who were only in the state of childhood.

During tea, Mrs. Singleton with more inquisitiveness than her husband possessed, broached the story of the ball at which she had been present and which terminated so unhappily for Marley; at the same time enquiring how he had become acquainted with the heiress of such large and rich properties. Marley frankly told her the manner, saying nothing however of his relationship to old Marley. But the lady was not to be answered thus shortly; she repeated the ghost tale, mentioning many comments on it and many suppositions which were current in the country till then totally unknown to Marley -- but all tending to the conclusion that there were a claimant in the island who would much impair the wealth of Equity Hall. If the rumours afloat could be relied on, Mr. Singleton sated that the reports whether false or true caused M'Fathom many sleepless nights. Marley however, remaining silent as if altogether ignorant of the transactions which were now detailed to the visible chagrin of the lady, the topic was dropped.

He had not been many days in his new situation which led him to be much among the white people who took the direct superintendence upon Singleton Hall, when the overseer, one Sunday afternoon invited him to accompany him on a ride to a neighbouring property on a visit to a strange, cynical overseer ycleped Wogan. They met with a tolerably kind reception, much kinder than Wogan was in the habit of giving his visitors; this same overseer not much relishing the company of his neighbours. They had not been long seated and had scarcely drank a glass of the usual beverage of rum and water when a rather handsome looking negro girl made her appearance blubbering and crying and complaining bitterly against a Christian Jew of a merchant in the town for selling her a gown piece of a very flashy colour, which after getting made in the pride of her hair, she had this day, for the first time, attired herself in and gone to visit her acquaintances on the neighouring estates to display her fine dress, no doubt thinking she must have looked charming and even more probably hoping that she would captivate some black beau, for she was yet unmarried. But alas! "Man is made to mourn," and women also for lo, and behold! She had unfortunately been caught in the rain which being greatly aided by the effects of a tropical sun, had thoroughly extracted the gaudy colours and entirely destroyed the beautiful gloss of her new gown leaving not a trace behind of its shewy gloss, and bright colours; but in their place there remained a rag of a dirty hue, of such a gauze like texture, that for all purposes, it might have best answered for a sieve. The poor girl could scarcely tell her sad story for crying and so very much afflicted was she that her heart seemed as if breaking. There was not one present whether white, brown, or black, but felt extremely affected at the distress of the poor negress who it appeared had in a day been trepanned out of upwards of a year's savings from her petty traffic, by this bauble of a fancy coloured gown, which colours, from her ignorance of unfixed ones she never thought were to evaporate in a few hours. Wogan himself was not one who felt the least on this occasion. He could do nothing in such a case but advise her to be more cautious in future, from whom, and what kind of articles she bought; but, what tended to console her most was a small present to help her to purchase another gown with which she thankfully retired.

She had no sooner departed than Wogan gave vent to his feelings of just indignation by exclaiming in the bitterness of his heart, with a grin on his countenance in which was depicted anger, contempt, and detestation, "May ruin be the lot of the manufacturers and dealers in such contemptible articles. May the fortunes of those who live by preparing and vending such deceptive merchandize be baffled and blasted! See the effects of their trading -- and yet the manufacturers and dealers in such nefarious goods in Britain may bear good characters and may consider themselves and be by others considered as honest men. Nay, some of such fellows may speechify and may pretend to feel much pity for the lot of the negroes -- may not only think it a sin to eat sugar unless it has been raised by free labour; but, may also contribute to societies for the propagation of religion among the slaves from the tithe of the very funds which they have gained by cheating them, by means of such gewgaws as that we have seen! But if I was a legislator, I would endeavor by every means to suppress such a nefarious traffic which in my opinion will ultimately tend to bring the manufacturers of our country into contempt among foreign nations and their goods to be despised, unsought for, and unsaleable, so many must every year be deceived by making purchases of British fabrics like those which find a market in this island."

An occurrence took place on an estate in this part of the country which marks more fully the opinions entertained by the slaves of their condition than whole volumes of arguments could do. The narrative shews us, that all negroes do not view slavery in the light of a life of misery; but that some of them look upon it as one, if not of perfect happiness, at least of comfort. The incident was this: one day about shell-blow, when the overseer of the property came from the field, he found a negress, apparently about forty years of age; with six or seven children around her, the eldest about sixteen, and the youngest bout five, sitting upon the steps of the buckra-house. The overseer to whom she was unknown asked her to what estate she belonged and what she wanted there, when he received in answer, that her name was Bella, that she belonged to massa, and had brought him these pickeninies who were all massa's. Being unaware that such a negerss belonged to the property, he was somewhat skeptical in crediting her statement never having observed the name on the list since he had had any charge upon the estate, which had been for several years. But she firmly persisted in her story saying, "dat him hab gone into de bush, grandy much time massa," adding, that she had there found a Maroon husband who was "de puppa of all him's pickeninies, and dat him's husband hab dead," -- and the reason which she assigned for coming to the estate was that she was afraid death would carry her off too and then her poor pickeninies would have no massa to take care of them, but would be left destitute and unprotected; she had therefore come to the resolution of bringing them to the estate where she knew they could never want. After shell-blow, when the people came from the field, she was recognized by numbers of the elderly negroes who had many years past ranked her among the number of the dead. Her story thus confirmed, it is almost needless to remark that ample and comfortable provision was made for her future life, according to her station; but whether she ever afterwards had cause to wish the step undone which consigned her progeny to slavery did not transpire.

One day when the letters were brought from the town, Marley found one for himself. It was from Mr. Fitzhughes, the overseer on Equity Hall. It had been addressed to him at Water Melon Valley where it had been left and transmitted by Mr. Adams to Mr. Graceson to forward. The contents were thus:

"DEAR SIR,

FROM the friendship existing betwixt us, I think I am only acting the part becoming the title of a friend when I acquaint you with occurrences which take place in this neighbourhood relating to you, because very probably you may be interested. You must be a dashing blade of a book-keeper indeed, for I learn that you attend assemblies and inconsequence of the last it seems your name and occupation was detected. It has come to the ears of Mr. M'Fathom in the manner which I now write to you.

At dinner at Equity Hall Mansion, the day after the ball, Miss Eccleston, (whom I presume you know to be a gay frank girl) who was present with Miss M'Fathom, her father, and Mr. Brotherton gave an account of the all and of the explosion that ensued which discovered her principal partner at that and the previous assembly as well as at Happy Fortune to be a book-keeper. The old people laughed heartily saying that you must have a pretty stock of impudence to dance with her who was elevated in rank so far above you. Miss M'Fathom in her own defence and for her own honour stated that you were there in company with two soldier officers who seemed to be your intimate companions for they familiarly called you by your surname of Marley. She was instantly interrupted by the old people whose faces had suddenly changed from that of laughter to that of wonder exclaiming in the height of astonishment, 'Marley!' 'Yes, father,' replied Miss M'Fathom, 'I did not know he was a book-keeper or I would not have danced with him.' She added, 'They sometimes called him Marley, sometimes George, and at other times Stewart, and he called them as familiarly Dick and Ned.' Observing them still continuing silent and thinking that they were angry with her, she again declared that she would not have danced with you, had she known you were a book-keeper, when her father replied, 'My dear child, I am not angry with you.' Mr. Brotherton also seeing her abashed likewise said, 'My dear Mary, we are not angry with you. You mentioned I think' continued Mr. Brotherton, 'that they called him George Stewart Marley, and what estate did they say he was upon?' 'That was his name,' replied Miss M'Fathom, 'but the estate which he belonged to was not once mentioned, so far as I heard; but they often spoke about their friends in Edinburgh, the place, I presume they came from.'

No other questions at this time were put and the remainder of dinner passed in silence; Brotherton, however often looking hard at M'Fathom as if he was not well pleased. What all this portends, or in what way it will end, you could perhaps unfold if you were inclined; but in my opinion, from M'Fathom's crusty temper since the jubilee night to use the words of Hamlet, 'there is something rotten in the state of Denmak.'

Time, I doubt not, will bring some explanation of this mystery -- and set all assumptions and conjectures at rights; for, that something relating to you and the M'Fathoms lies hid, I cannot bring myself to doubt. If such is the truth, I trust that it will terminate beneficially to your happiness. I would be exceeding glad to hear from you when you have anything interesting to communicate -- and in like manner, I will write to you about whatever occurs here, which I think can at all regard you.

Hoping that you continue happy in your situation, and that sickness is a stranger to you, I conclude by wishing you all that a friend can wish, and subscribe myself,

Yours most sincerely, H. FITZHUGHES."

There were yet remaining some months before Marley attained the years of majority, he still deemed it prudent to conceal his secret in his own breast till that period arrived; determining if he then found Mr. Singleton and Mr. Graceson continue his friendship, as he confidently trusted they would, to submit his case to them for their advice and assistance. With the aid of the vouchers in his possession, with the secret of the title deeds, and with the evidence of the two ensigns, hope whispered him that ultimately he would succeed in gaining his property. But he was averse to entering into any steps against M'Fathom, fearful that the consequences would prove fatal to his love which hope flattered him he would yet be successful in obtaining. With such ideas floating in his imagination and in the active life which engrossed much of his time, days and weeks were wearing away, when one day he went to town out of curiosity to see a family of mustees who were advertised to be sold by public outcry on that day. We will however reserve the description of the sale for the beginning of another chapter.

CHAPTER XI

AT the hour of sale, Marley entered the vendue room when his attention was immediately directed towards three genteel well-dressed young females exposed for sale in one lot. They were sisters of the caste denominated mustees, their mother having been a Quadroon and their father, a white man. The handsome forms, the apparently cultivated manners, the soft and pleasing faces wholly European even more fair than numbers of our countrywomen and the neatness, nay elegance of their dress aided by the faint vermillion tinge, which their unfortunate and public exposure to all eyes forced into their countenances, caused them to form a very interesting group. There were few people in the room who did not feel pity for their lamentable fate; and it is probable the sensations of these poor girls were such as to baffle description. Their father had been a respectable gentleman and they were his family by a brown woman who had been a slave of his own. He had brought them up in a genteel manner as his recognized family, and they had been educated similarly to the free ladies in the island, the father never having considered them in the light of slaves. They had been accustomed to receive the same treatment in every respect as the free children of a man in somewhat opulent circumstances so that nothing could have been more distant from their thoughts than that ever this would be their sorrowful situation -- that they one day would be exposed in a public vendue room as slaves, and knocked down to the highest bidder. The granting of their freedom, unhappily (for their mother had died a slave) had been postponed from time to time by their father, till death removed him from this mortal state without the deed of manumission having been executed. His affairs were found in so embarrassed a state that his creditors attached his whole property and even his own children as part of his estate. The consequence was, these girls were brought to the hammer to pay their father's debts being held to be part of his moveable property. No offerers appeared, however, and though they were afterwards several different times advertised and exposed to public auction, they would not sell. Their genteel manners, liberal education, and pleasing appearance would have entitled them to comfortable marriages in Britain; and it was the very same reasons that prevented anyone in Jamaica from making a purchase of them, because the neighbourhood would have cried shame had they been put to any laborious or even servile employment, considering the very special situation in which they had been brought up contrasted with the unfortunate and unexpected one in which they now stood. And as the lot could not be separated, and no prospect of any sale offered, they were allowed to roam at large in the same manner as if they had been free. For the Jamaica proprietors have not as yet to their credit, at least not to their shame, learned to traffic of the beauty of their female slaves of a nature which many worthy ladies it is said of Dutch extraction at the Cape (who carry their heads pretty high, and esteem themselves as the nobility of the place) find very lucrative. And if some of the Barbadian ladies are not much belied, a similar praiseworthy custom prevails in some towns in that island.

Reflecting on the painful situation and lamenting the hard fate of these interesting-looking girls, Marley was proceeding out of the sale room when he met an old college acquaintance with whom he had been in habits of intimacy while at the university. Marley cordially shook him by the hand, expressing the pleasure which he felt at so unexpected a meeting. His college chum was equally pleased, though he seemed so confused in his utterance as to attract the particular notice of Marley who had known him for a smart youth, and a very superior scholar. Marley, whose back was towards the people in the auction room, did not immediately perceive the cause of his companion's confusion; but, on turning round, he observed all eyes fixed upon himself, and from the contemptuous looks bestowed, the tittering carried on and the appearance of the white company, he had no doubt but that he had done something to cause the confusion of his friend. He at once recollected what had not occurred to him at the moment that the face of his companion was brown and that in their estimation he had degraded himself as unworthy of being white by shewing so much familiarity and condescension to a person of so low a case as a man of colour, even though free as to treat him as if he were an equal. But Marley was not one of those who can forget or forsake his old acquaintances without a just cause, and he had not yet drunk so deeply of West Indian prejudices as to think that one who was esteemed in Edinburgh a good and worthy acquaintance, though of a darker shade than himself should be an unworthy one in Jamaica, for that reason only. His pride too was up for it was now more difficult to recede than to advance; and disregarding the illiberal thoughts of those of his own complexion, he took him by the arm and walked out with him as with one who was his equal in every respect and on his companion's entreaty, accompanied him home to talk over old matters.

After chatting for some time till dinner was over, and glasses were placed on the table, the brown gentleman called Marley's attention to the spectacle which they had shortly before witnessed, and from this topic, he diverged to the state of the people of his own colour. And as the disclosure related to a large class of mankind in the colonies of whom it may be interesting to the reader to know the actual situation -- the true distance at which they are held by the white inhabitants -- their rank in society and the regard bestowed upon them by their white brethren's -- we will give in the gentleman's own words his ideas on a subject which has received less discussion than its merits deserve.

"You are probably aware," said he, "Mr. Marley, that people of colour are distinguished by the names of Samboes, Mulattoes, Quadroons, Mustees, Mustiphinies, and Quintroons or Quinterones, the next descent after the last being those persons who are called white by law, and who become to all intents and purposes white men and as such are entitled to all their privileges. Of this latter class, however, to whom justice is conferred, I have no occasion to say anything, especially as they are, comparatively speaking, only as a drop of water in the ocean, in proportion to our numbers and in many parishes scarcely a single individual of this class will be found. Among us of the unprivileged colour, there are too many complaints and those are not ill founded. We have always been viewed as you are well aware in the light of an inferior race to those whose parents have been wholly white. Our very fathers have had the unnatural feelings of enacting cruel and degrading laws proscribing their own issue as unworthy of being ranked in the same class with those who were the means of giving them existence. To them indeed we are indebted for our being; but to them also, we owe our state of degradation in our own country, and surely, they must have been fathers divested of every tender and parental feeling, thus debase and curse the progeny, they were the means of ushering into life. These cruel fathers, disregarding the most strong and tender law of nature, an affection most deeply rooted in human beings, that of the love of parents for their children, consented, nay even assisted in enacting laws the object of which was to make their own issue slaves. Though the blood of free men and the fathers flowed in their veins they considered their own children as of a castee no higher than negroes. They formed laws, and enforced them, declaring that their sons and daughters were not worthy to be delivered on oath. That even though relieved from the bondage of personal slavery -- made members of the Christian church -- educated in the Universities of Britain, and capable of holding employments in the mother country of the very highest description, both civil and military; yet, if these persons, however respectable in Europe return to this island, their company would be shunned and disdained by the poorest white and their evidence would not be received in the most trifling case; -- they would be incapable of holding any employment, even the lowest -- and their father, even though he bestowed on them their freedom, had not the power to convey his own property to them to a greater extent to each coloured child, than 2000 currency, which you know is forty per cent less than sterling when at par. To the disgrace of the British Empire in the west, these laws have remained for nearly two centuries and they still remain in force to the prejudice of vast numbers of our unfortunate brethren of colour, who, less fortunate than those whose shackles have been loosened still remain in a state of bondage. They still groan under the want of personal freedom, and though the children of Britons who boast so highly of their liberty, the blood of their fathers confers no rights upon them. The blood of their mothers, it would seem, has so neutralized that of their fathers that none of the rights which the father inherited from his fathers with the exception of the single one of life, can descent to them. In lieu of their father's privileges however, they have the whole portion of their mother; that is, the misery of the most abject slavery which ever existed on the face of the earth, and these, the children of Englishmen, form part of the goods and chattels, frequently of their own fathers, and may, and are, often sold by the owners of their mother, nay often by the creditors of their father.

"What will the feeling part of mankind think of the boasted goodness of the whites in the West Indies? -- What will they think of the parental affection -- so strong in civilized countries and even so strong among the most barbarous and untaught savages -- of those who give existence to a race of children on whom they bestow slavery as a portion? -- of those who consider it as no breach of natural affection -- no, not even a degradation to the character of a gentleman and a worthy member of society to have numbers of children languishing out their lives in the hopeless unceasing round of slavery? Such things ought not to be but they are; and many humane people will think that since there are such fathers in existence -- men to whom the ties of humanity and the natural feelings of parents are unknown, the law of the land should enforce a remedy and prevent the evil which arises continually from a system so inhuman and so contrary to every dictate of nature as well as of religion.

"The feelings of people of colour can in few instances be the same with those of negroes. Negroes know that it is their fate from both fathers and mothers to be hewers of wood and drawers of water for the whites; but the man in whose veins flows the blood of a free and a white man considers himself exalted in consequence and placed above the man who is wholly black. And the feelings of nature, when he views the situation of his father contrasted with his own must be the desire of some portion of that liberty which his father enjoyed -- this situation is, therefore, more deplorable than that of the black whose birthright gives him no title nor any reason to hope for such privileges.

"Besides too, it unquestionably has all along been as act of the most gross injustice and a most palpable dereliction from, and violation of the constitution of Britain, and of the charters of these islands, founded on that constitution to hold the children of Britons in slavery; for a length of time can legalize what was from the first unjust and unlawful. It is the law of England and one of the fundamental principles of its famed constitution that the child of a British father, born even in a foreign land, and of a foreign mother, inherits all the privileges of the father. No exclusion of these birthrights follows in consequence of the country in which the child is born or of which the mother is a subject. Upon what principle of law, justice, or equity can it be contended then, that the children of Britons, in the West Indies can be held in slavery? It is surely not enough to say that because their mothers were black, a distinction is to be drawn even though our laws have recognized no such distinction or that because they were born out of the place of legal marriage, they cannot claim the rights which their fathers inherited. By the boasted constitution or laws of England, it is the blood of the father which confers the privilege and unless those who hold people of colour in slavery can shew that by the law of England, the illegitimate children of Englishmen are deprived of their rights, they illegally hold the progeny of Englishmen in bondage. Unless they can shew that the law of England was such at the time the colonies were founded, or that since then it has been the law they have no claim to their services; and the charters of our colonies being founded on the constitution of England, it is self-evident that no Englishman's child whether legitimate or illegitimate can be deprived of his birthright of freedom without some act of his own whereby he has forfeited his rights in consequence of the violation of some known law inflicting such a penalty. And, surely, at this time of knowledge, when constitutional law is so well understood, it can never legally or justly be maintained that any acts of the colonial legislatures even though sanctioned by the king in council, can have the effect in the most direct violation of the first principles of the constitution, to deprive an Englishman's child, though a bastard of his natural birthright of freedom without any fault of his own. The colonial argument in favour of this oppressive species of thraldom, savours so much of barbarity, nay, of bruitishness, that it can never be listened to, unless it is first conceded to them, that negro women are upon the same scale with brutes. For instance, is it any legal argument to pretend that because the owner of a cow is entitled to its calf, the same rule should hold in law regarding the child of a negro mother by an English father, and because there is a fiction in law, that a bastard has no father, it is just that the child of an Englishman must follow the fate of is mother though the colour of the child proves beyond all manner of doubt that it has English blood in its veins; and I have yet to learn whether there is any law which tolerates the circulation of English blood in the body of a slave, born in the English dominions. I maintain, without the fear of contradiction, that in terms of the first and most essential principles of English constitutional law, coloured people are and have been illegally unjustly, and in direct violation of the rights of Englishmen, retained in slavery; and that every act sanctioning such an unjust proceeding has been contrary to the meaning, terms, and principles of the constitution of Britain. In such circumstances, notwithstanding the length of time that coloured people have been held in bondage, their owners, or more correctly speaking, their pretended or assumed owners cannot shew any good or legal grounds for maintaining that they have thereby acquired a prescriptive right to their services; their claim has been in dereliction of the law, under which they themselves live enjoying their privileges hold their property. In short, their retention of coloured people as slaves, places them in the same predicament with the holder of stolen goods, which the law says can be reclaimed at any time.

"There fortunately, however were some parents of a direct stamp from those who have been mentioned -- parents who had a proper idea of the true feelings of the obligations between them and their children and from these a numerous race of free people of colour now exist in the colonies. Till within a few years, scarcely any of the privileges of humanity were conferred on us, excepting freedom and although there were among us numbers of well-educated and virtuous men, our applications to the colonial legislature for redress of the grievances under which we labored were treated with contempt. No rights would the legislature concede to us. The whites maintained that we were unworthy of being placed in any degree on an equality with free-born white men. They asserted that we possessed no stability of character that we were a race devoid of morality; but they refused to consider that they themselves were the cause of this instability and immorality, for it is an unerring rule of nature that to debase a race is synonymous with demoralizing it. We had no incentive to virtue, but for virtue's sake. In us, the most upright and meritorious conduct gave title to no pre-eminence in society and the hope of reward or of estimation in public opinion formed no stimulus to virtue. So low a rank did we hold in our own country that we were not entitled to credit upon oath, if a white person was concerned.

"In this low grade in the scale of humanity were we placed and little prospect appeared that the legislature would remove us farther from the abject state of our mothers and nearer to that condition possessed by our fathers when a new era was opened from a source which we did not expect. It was a boon of humanity conferred on us, and we should be ungrateful to our best benefactor, if we did not raise monuments to his memory. A few years have only elapsed since this just and philanthropic measure was effected by the exertions of the late Honourable John Shand -- a man who has conferred honour upon his race and who ought to be ranked with a Howard and a Wilberforce, as one of the friends of humankind. In his humane endeavours, he had to contend against a strong and powerful opposition in our own colonial legislature -- a faction who did not scruple to impute his motives to a selfish intention, and opposed the measure without having any regard to the public welfare on the ground that he himself was the father of a family of coloured children whom he wished to inherit his large fortune. Whatever may have been his motives, the effect has been beneficial to us, while it has been prejudicial to no one; and with the liberality of Christians and of Britons, we ought to view his exertions in the purest and the most favourable light. His firm manly conduct, his persuasive eloquence, his long tried integrity, his unwearied exertions in the service of the colony in which a great portion of his life was spent, effected what all our complaints could not gain -- notwithstanding the popular prejudices of the whites ran strongly against us, and the hue and cry was raised that the colony would be ruined if the measure was carried into a law, the liberal party happily prevailed over the illiberal and the prejudiced.

"The vulgar-minded among the whites could not bear the idea of seeing a person who had the smallest drop of black blood in him placed in a state of society; any remove above a negro far less in any situation like an equality with themselves. And pray, what think you Marley, was the mighty boon which was conceded to us free people of colour, the effects of which was to ruin the colony? It was neither more nor less than that of allowing our parents to bequeath their property to us -- allowing our testimony on oath to be received as evidence -- allowing us to be non-commissioned officers in the companies of militia formed of the free blacks and free coloured people and, I believe, allowing us to marry among ourselves. It was this enfranchisement which our enemies alleged was to bring ruin on the country; but so far from the prediction of the illiberal and the prejudiced having come to pass, the colony is now fully stronger than it was before the passing of Mr. Shand's act.

"Though it was an act of justice for which we cannot be too thankful to a liberal mind, it has not gone far enough. It is evident, we are still considered as aliens in the country which gave us birth, and in the only country which we can claim as our own. You will observe that we cannot be jurymen, magistrates, commissioned officers in the militia, nor members of the assembly or council, nor even in any of the minor local offices. In short, we can hold no office either of honour or of profit in the country in which we were born. What rule of expediency for this exclusion could any liberal mind devise? There are among us men of wealth, education, intelligence, and integrity, among whom there are numbers capable of filling any office in our own land with credit to themselves, and honour to their country. We are subjects of the same king -- members of the same church, and have an equal stake in the colonies with the whites. Why then exclude us from every office of honour or emolument? In Britain, and in every country in Europe, we are placed upon an equality with the whites; and in the former, there is no bar in law to prevent our becoming judges of the land, generals in the army, or members of parliament; but, in the country of our birth, we cannot be even a juryman, or a member of the vestry, or an ensign in the militia. The conduct of our legislature toward us is surely anything but liberal, and in a political point of view, had we more interest in the colonies than our white brethren have bestowed on us, it would tend to strengthen these colonies in place of weakening them. It assuredly would furnish us with greater inducements to defend our own country than from the nature of things can be expected from our present degraded state; we then could have no farther advantage to anticipate from any possible change which the most sanguine among us could contemplate; whereas, from the situation in which we now stand, aliens in the country which gave us birth and the only one which claims us as its own, we could not suffer more indignities from any other country than those now inflicted on us, unless that of being deprived of our private property. And the small portion of property which is among us in comparison with what the whites possess, might preclude them from entertaining the slightest dread of their being excluded, even in a small degree, from the offices of honour, of trust, or of emolument in the country.

"Another, and a greater evil, of which we have seriously to complain, arises from our being debarred from all situations of honour or of eminence and which renders us a proscribed race of a degraded caste in our own land. Although in England, we are treated on the footing of equality, it is here considered as derogatory to the character of a white man to be in habits of intimacy with any of us. We are not allowed to sit at the same table with a man whose face is white even though he should be of the lowest extraction, education and employment; neither can we openly eat or drink with any of them. From the company of the whites, we may safely say we are altogether excluded, nay, even if we happen to be in a tavern by ourselves, and a white man should enter, it is expected that we should instantly retire as from the presence of one who in every respect is our superior. Even in the theatres, too, separate seats are allotted to us, as if our mixing promiscuously among the whites, carried contamination or infection along with it -- nay even in the house of God, a similar regulation prevails and is rigidly enforced. This, you will acknowledge, is degradation enough but it is carried still farther, for on those properties belonging to us, whereon white men are required to serve deficiency, the owner, or the person acting for the owner if he is of our complexion dares not to sit at the same table with those white people who eat his read and receive his wages. No, these white servants will not submit to lessen their importance by eating with their brown master. In truth, were they to submit, the whites would never countenance them. Therefore, when the coloured owner inclines to eat with his most noble servants because they are white, although so diametrically opposite to English notions of the relation between master and servant, he must have a side table set for himself, while his white servants occupy the principal one. This petty and truly insufferable debasement is the effect of our being excluded from all offices conferring honour. It is a degradation which we perceive daily passing before our eyes so very exasperating, that there is not room for wonder, that we should feel more irritated and incensed from this mortifying source than from any other. This system of galling degradation shews itself so perpetually that no minds possessing any of the feelings of men, but must feel more irritated and hurt by it than by the want of more essential benefits, which are not so requisite in the ordinary occurrences of life. Degradation we feel to be our lot, and many of the more favoured whites take delight and special care to prevent us from forgetting it. They think they are displaying the characteristics of superior men by taking every opportunity of wounding our feelings, for no other end than to shew that we are of a class inferior to them. Unquestionably, generous-minded men would spurn at any such illiberal ideas or actions, but unfortunately, the vulgar-minded form the great mass of every race and until our grievances are redressed by allowing us to be on an equality with the whites such a fate will ever be ours. Our white brethren should recollect that a continued course of degrading one race of mankind by a shew of superiority by one class over another cannot remain forever. They should recollect that men are more exasperated by paltry grievances that are continually in view, than what arises from more real grievances which may affect the mass, but which seldom very sorely affect the individual. They should remember that revolutions in states are more frequently occasioned by such matters apparently trifling when they come home to the feelings of individuals than by the real grievances that are assigned as the causes of the revolutions. But if this degrading and debasing cause was once removed by granting us the same privileges as the whites, we should soon find our proper rank in society -- more kindly feelings between the whites and the people of our colour would result from the intercourse and the effect unquestionably would be beneficial to the whole inhabitants of the island.

"With regard to the free girls of our complexion, observe how woefully ill-treated are they. You see they are truly fine figures of women, and I assume you, the greater part of them are possessed of humane and tender dispositions, and all the kindly feelings which render females so pleasing as companions. No women on the face of the earth possess more affection for the men to whom they are attached or to whom they are united than they do; and in sickness almost every man who has been in the island for any length of time, must confess they are humane and attentive nurses. Many of them too are tolerably well educated and might be compared with the class of ladies who are somewhat elevated above the labouring population of Britain; and in the mother country they would form desirable wives. But mark the state of degradation to which they are doomed in this their native land. Too few marriages among the coloured population themselves have as yet been entered into; this arises not so much from the girls themselves being of an immoral character as from observing the superior affluence in which their acquaintances move who live with the white gentlemen. As naturally might be expected they are attracted by this appearance of rank and by the superior respect which they witness a white man receives in comparison with the degradation of a brown one. A girl, therefore, observing this, and that the circumstance of living with a white man conveys no disgrace nor carries any loss of caste along with it, naturally aspires to rise above her former mode of life, by forming a connection with a white man. This is the real cause, and if she happens to possess any property, or has any friends to look after her interest, the transaction to call it by so mild a name sometimes takes place on the man's promising or giving a bond for the payment of a certain specific sum on his marriage or departure from the island; and in some instances, these bonds are for so very large sums, as effectually to prevent the white man either from marrying, or leaving the island. It is no uncommon circumstance for a father to make these bargains himself, after bringing up his daughters in the best way he possibly can: some of these fathers, -- not only being far from poor men, but men in a respectable sphere of life. Yet, from being long inured to the manners of the island, they seem to think there is nothing improper, immoral, or irreligious, in this mode of disposing of their daughters as concubines; for, marriage with these girls by a white man, if not expressly precluded by law, is so by custom.

"Fortunately, however, there are fathers who are of a different stamp. These men send their sons and daughters to Britain for their education, with instructions to remain there during their lives. Possessing the true feelings of men, and of fathers, for their issues, they will not consent to their children being placed in a rank beneath themselves; and feeling horror at the very idea their daughters living in a state of concubinage, they will never consent to their returning to the island. Nay, some of them, from their detestation to the immoral, though too common practice have gone so far as to make it an absolute condition in their latter wills that the return of their daughters to their native country, shall amount to a forfeiture of the property bequeathed to them.

"Surely there must be something wrong in the laws of a country, when such measures require to be adopted by individuals. This immoral state of things, unquestionably, has originated from, and is supported by our being marked out as a degraded and an inferior race, by those whom adventitious circumstances has graced with a white hue. While this cause remains neither human nor divine laws will effect a cure of this immoral, irreligious, and pernicious state of manners. But bestow upon us the rights, which naturally belong to us, as the children of British fathers, and then, but not till then, will our daughters and sisters, be placed on an equality with white people in every respect except that of being a little darker in the complexion. Marriages between white and coloured people will then become prevalent. In a moral point of view, who will have the hardihood to say that this would be disadvantageous? In a political one, I defy the bitterest enemy of our colour to shew even a plausible reason why the present system should be continued.

"Now that there is such a hue and cry in Britain, about the negroes, I should like to know, what their pretended friends actually mean by granting them their freedom? -- Do they intend to place them on a similar footing with us free people of colour? -- or to grant them the privileges which the whites possess? If they bestow on them their freedom only, without these privileges, do they think it is probable that a body so numerous as the negroes are in comparison with the small number of white people will submit to the want of political privileges? if These friends of the blacks, would allow themselves to think for a moment, they must admit that the negroes must either not be freed at all or be placed on an equal footing with their owners: for the people in Britain certainly cannot imagine that they will be quiet, docile and thankful, under the shackles which they will then complain of more than they at present complain of their bondage. And it surely cannot be the wish of the friends of the blacks that Britain should make these islands a barracks, like Ireland, to hold them in subjection. Before liberty is conceded to the negroes, this subject will require to undergo a very serious consideration for if motives of humanity, real or imaginary, should at any time induce the British legislature to grant a general manumission of the slaves I am afraid they will by that act destroy their colonies and ruin the white and coloured proprietors without in the least improving the condition of the negroes.

"In Britain it is, true they pretend that no bad consequences would ensue, because none are felt in the State of New York, or in Ceylon, or in St. Helena, where steps are in operation for the gradual abolition of slavery; but any arguments founded on these precedents must be erroneous when applied to the West Indies, where the state of the population is diametrically the reverse of that in those places where the trial is in progress. This must be perceptible in the most decided degree to every unprejudiced mind, when it is considered that the State of New York was never a great slave state, and in consequence the numbers of the blacks bore only a very small proportion indeed to the white population. In Ceylon, the slaves in number were only as a drop of water in the surrounding sea, in comparison with the free population.

And in the small island of St. Helena, the number of slaves was trifling; besides, St Helena is a fortress, and it is evident that that very circumstance enabled changes and innovations to be effected there without any danger which could be done nowhere else.

"In these places, therefore, where the slave population bore no proportion to the free, a gradual manumission could cause no injury whatever in consequence of those who were free at the time making the attempt, being by far the most numerous and powerful while the other or the enslaved portion was without comparison the weakest. But behold the difference between these three places and the West Indies, where there is good grounds for believing that the slave population outnumbers the whites, the free people of colour and the free blacks by at least seven to one.

"The instances of these modes of manumission, it is quite evident can never apply to the West Indies, or would the application of a similar mode being extended to some other States of America, or to the Cape of Good Hope strengthen the argument in the least, because in these other states, as well as the cape, the whites are also the most numerous body and in consequence the strongest. Such examples therefore, can never with safety be acted upon as precedents for this island where the whites bear so very small a proportion to the numbers of their slaves.

"Without attributing any other motive than pure philanthropy to those who are so eager to have negro slavery abolished, I may wish they would devote a small portion of their humanity to the whites and the free people of colour. They ought to consider that they are advocating a cause which may prove fatal to the lives of numbers of their own complexion and of others of a shade a little darker who have no influence on the question and whose sole means of existence depends on the possession of a few slaves. It may be an agreeable speculation to philanthropists, to think that they are exerting all their influence to make a numerous race happy; but, at the same time, they should reflect, that they are keeping a great many of their brethren more nearly allied to them than the negroes, in a feverish state of anxiety and suspense regarding their own lives, and their small pittance of property. They should remember that in all the islands there are numbers of individuals possessed of small settlements, which enable them to procure a bare subsistence; and who, though by far the most numerous body of free people, possess not a tithe of the negroes in the country. The great body of the slaves, for whom so much compassion has been shewn are the property of large landed proprietors, most of whom are non-residenters in the country. These, though they might be unjustly deprived of their property are in no danger of losing their lives; but this is not the case with the poor resident settlers, who have no other country than the one in which they live; and who, if forced from it, would be rendered utterly destitute and be compelled through necessity to beg their bread.

"Surely these inhabitants deserve that some small degree of compassion and pity should be felt for their situation. Surely the circumstance of their not being black should not derogate so far as to preclude them from all share of tenderness. That they are born fair, or of coloured complexion, should never be attributed to them as a fault, and certainly they are not reprehensible in thinking that they have claims to compassion equally good with those who are born of the darker hue. But it would seem, in this age of philanthropy that to be black is the only title to pity while those who are white are entitled to none. It is said to be compassion, to deprive the possessor of his servants too, which the laws of this country have always held to be scared to the possessor; and yet many of those, who endeavor to effect this measure are unjust enough to contend that their masters have no right to remuneration.

"And what is the character of those blacks, whom so many people in Britain wish to set at liberty? They are men who are totally devoid of education who have been always under the most strict control and who cannot be said to have ever acted for themselves. Tell these men that they are their own masters, and that they need only work if it pleases themselves and what are the natural consequence which may be expected to arise? Do the good people in Britain think that they would all be anxious and eager to get employment in the same manner as the labourers in Britain? Do they think that it is consonant with common sense that nearly half a million of people possessing not an inch of the soil, and so very little property as to be scarcely worthy of notice, would tamely submit to allow thirty or forty thousand people to possess the whole? Do they consider that this half million possess scarcely any knowledge of religion and so little moral principle as to be generally addicted to stealing, even when under the strictest control? Is it probable then that the boon of freedom would act instantaneously as a religious and as a moral monitor to correct these evil propensities? The most staunch abolitionist must allow that it is not possible to believe that it would have any such beneficial effect. It is however, very possible to conjecture, that large bodies of them would become banditti, if indeed the great mass of them did not become rebellious subjects and repeat the tragedy which a similar race of mankind performed in Haiti. Such might be, and very probably, would be, the consequences -- for who would answer for the first effervescence of passion which would inevitably result upon telling half a million of slaves, that they were men free as their masters? A scene of blood would follow. Those white men to whom any of the slaves bore an umbrage, whether just or unjust, would be devoted to destruction; and when the work of destruction commenced where it would stop, no man could predict. Those who were guilty must proceed in the same career for they would know that to stop short would be to mark themselves out for death. The flames of rebellion would in this manner be germinated and an exterminating war on the part of the blacks would be the consequence. Neither sex nor age would be sacred; all who were within their reach would meet with one general massacre, and their footsteps would be marked with blood, horror, and devastation. This inevitably would be the result if we are allowed to judge by experience from what has happened in all the rebellions of the negroes in the West Indies and from what took place during the last Maroon war in this very neighbourhood.

"Such would be the end which the philanthropists would have the pleasing satisfaction of contemplating, if their favourite measure of a total abolition of slavery was effected -- and such may probably be the issue if they yearly raise an incessant outcry for this abolition. For who can answer for the result when so many hundreds of thousands are yearly taught that they are kept in bondage contrary to the will of the people in Great Britain? It will be a lamentable event if it should happen and the result will be a loss which Britain for generations to come will deplore.

"Far be it from me however to wish that negro slavery should exist forever. I am strongly inclined to think that in the course of time, manumission on an extended scale, may safely be attempted, but before any steps for such a purpose can be adopted, measures for the moral, religious, and social instruction of the negroes, must first be carried into operation. When this latter effect is obtained a gradual abolition will unquestionably ensue to the benefit of all classes in the community. And it will be exactly in the ratio in which the people themselves become moral and industrious that slavery will decrease; then the fruits of their industry will enable the negroes to purchase their own freedom, and slavery will imperceptibly cease to exist in the same manner that villianage died a natural death in England.

"It is in this manner that the Ruler of the Universe, by means of the silent operations of time, effects his omnipotent purposes. The seasons change gradually and almost imperceptible to the fulfillment of the desired end, and in a like silent and gentle manner, slavery should ultimately terminate. But the abolitionists, overlooking the quiet and even tenour of the ways of providence, attempts to carry their plans into effect not by similar progressive means, but by introducing into the country the desolating effects of the hurricane and the earthquake, by rashly acting on a scheme which would bring into play an exterminating warfare wherein neither helpless old age, nor feeble youth, nor the sacredness of sex, would be spared; wherein would be committed the most horrible atrocities, which it is possible for man to inflict upon his own race. These are the happy results which the humane, the religious, and the gender sex, would be able to say we have been the means of achieving by our incessant clamours and importunities, directed to the most favourable and the most angelic feelings of our nature to force the sympathies of humanity, to wage war against our reason and in the contest to let ideal feelings conquer what more sober reason would declare unconquerable.

"But waving this fatal view of anything like an immediate or general abolition, it may be added that even if no steps were taken by the mother country, slavery will terminate of itself, though indeed, in a very slow manner. A gradual and safe abolition might be considerably forwarded if some slight alterations of the law of this island were adopted. Unquestionably the acts of the colony would be followed in all the others; and this gradual and safe abolition in all probability would be effected by the colonial legislatures themselves if they were not continually alarmed by the outcries of England, and if they were not dictated to in the manner which the British Parliament have for some time been doing. I, for one, applaud the spirit which Jamaica and other colonies have displayed in refusing the dictation, even of the British parliament and of his Majesty's ministers. They are right in refusing to listen to and comply with the instructions which have been sent them by a body in which they are not represented. If the colonists had acted otherwise, I should have marked them out as degenerated descendants of Britons, unworthy of claiming kindred with those generous ancestors who nobly spurned the idea of bequeathing to their descendants the nugatory constitution which Charles II of inglorious memory wished to palm on them. I am happy, however, that they have bravely stood up in the defence of their just and unalienable rights and it is my ardent hope and my sincere wish that they will never allow the imprescriptible rights of Britons, to be trampled on by any man or set of men, what-so-ever.

"Probably, Mr. Marley, you may not be aware, that by the constitution or character of this island, our legislature has similar rights within the island as the British parliament has within Great Britain and Ireland. The British parliament has no legal power to frame laws for the internal taxation, or the internal policy of Jamaica; and cannot do so without violating and effectually destroying the constitution of the island. To plead that they can do so with impunity because they are the strongest party, savours so little of justice or constitutional law, that the British people ever will do so on any such grounds. On any other, they have not a legal principle which will justify their interference with our internal legislation; and surely it must be presumed that the people in this colony, comprehending men of the most respectable talents integrity and education are more able to legislate on any subject of internal legislation, than men totally unacquainted with the manners, the conduct, the dispositions, the virtues, and the vices of the black population. The legislators in the British Parliament judge from what they consider the abstract evils of slavery. They have been told of insulated acts of cruelty perpetrated on slaves. These, they hold up in a prominent manner and at all times point out as the common lot of men in bondage. They will not allow themselves to consider that in all nature; and that even in England itself, numbers daily suffer the effects of tyranny and oppression some in violation of the law, and some under the colour and pretext of law. In counties where slavery exists, it would surely not be consonant with nature to suppose that acts of oppression and even of cruelty were unknown, but that even in proportion to numbers these colonies, exhibit any more than what takes place in more free countries, can never be believed. A slave is property, and takes mankind in the mass -- how few among them are found to be regardless of the property which is their wealth and means of subsistence! How few are there among them who do not bestow every attention and care in their power on the preservation and good of their property! Why the possession of human beings should be thought not to be included in this firmly established rule, seems impossible to be conceived, for to all intents and purposes, they are property in nine hundred and ninety-nine instances out of a thousand; they are treated in such a manner as to furnish no cause of complaint. This is the language of common sense, for if they were generally treated in any such manner as the acts which are laid to the charge of the Colonists seem to evince, human nature could not bear it. It would be impossible. Slaves are human beings, and in common with their race, have passions of every sort embued in them, as strongly as they are implanted in the breasts of any European and if their treatment were such as is unjustly thinking being who reflects for a moment if not previously warped by prejudice must coincide in this opinion, and then he will be convinced that the slaves are not the miserable race those who are unacquainted with them maintain."

Marley's former classmate thus concluded his harangue, and shortly afterwards they separated when Marley left the town on his return to his home.

As readers may wish for an explanation of these terms, the following is submitted as a correct one. A Samboe is the nighest removed from black, being the child of a Mulattoe father, and negro woman, or vice versa. A Mulattoe is the child of a white man by a negress.

A quadroon is the child of a Mulattoe mother, by a white father. The child of Quadroon by a white man, is a Mustee. The child of a white man by a Mustee woman is a Mutiphini. The child of a Mustiphini by a white father, is a Quintroon, and the child of a Quintroon woman by a white is free by law. Some authors who have treated on the West indies, do not count so far; but the writer of this, has seen more than one family of Quintroons by Mustiphini mothers in a state of slavery, which of course would not have been the case, had they been called white by law.

CHAPTER XII

IN the evening, on Marley's returning home, he found the people upon Singleton Hall in a state of joyful surprise, in consequence of the unexpected appearance of a young runaway negro called Dublin, who was bedecked in a super livery. He was born, brought up on and belonged to the estate, but he had been upwards of three years amissing. During all that time, no trace of him what-so-ever could be discovered and from his being a smart active social fellow, there was no reason to think that he had run into "the bush." Much conjecture about his absence, and many enquiries after him, had been made, but without success; it was concluded he had died.

His return therefore caused great astonishment as did the singular tale he told. It seems he felt dissatisfied with vegetating like a cabbage on the spot on which he was born and was determined to see a little of the white man's country, but unlike the cockney, who being desirous of seeing the world, engaged to keep the Eddystone Lighthouse, Dublin had more extended ideas and thought it would improve his education to take a peep at England. In consequence, he had contrived to conceal himself on board of a ship on the eve of one departing for London, by which means he was carried off the island.

Of course, on his arrival in London, Dublin became as free a man as his master; and from what he said he easily found employment as a servant. But he had somehow or other not much to his comfort been bandied about from one service to another for more than two years. In that time, it seems he had got tired of his newly acquired liberty and wished himself back again upon Singleton Hall Estate.

Accordingly, he ran from his service and from his freedom, hired himself on board of a ship bound for the port from which he had sailed, and voluntarily returned into bondage. Mr. Singleton was glad that he had come back and upon his promising that he would not make another voyage, nothing was said about his desertion. As it was thought that he would not relish working in the field after his late mode of employment, he was taken into the house as one of the attendants, a situation which was somewhat similar to those he had been accustomed to in London. He expressed himself happy that he had got back among his kindred and acquaintance, and was never lead to regret the resignation of his freedom. It seemed to him a state very little different from the one he was born to. He had always been while free, under both a master and a mistress, and as he said himself, though he saw no "floggee" in London, there was "much, all too much speakee," and sometimes a little cuffing and caning too.

Punishments were seldom had recourse to upon this estate, and it was found that the people wrought equally well with those on whom the whip was used more freely. They were a fine set of negroes, both as regarded strength and good dispositions and in consequence, matters went on smoothly and pleasantly to all concerned in their management. Yet, notwithstanding their good usage, some of them had gone into the bush, and could not be found.

An overseer in the neighbourhood having died, Marley was invited to his funeral and having attended, he found Mr. Wogan, who has been formerly mentioned, one of the funeral company. The burial took place in the garden of the estate, the usual place wherein they bury the white people who belong to the plantations -- the negroes again choose the neighbourhood of their own huts for such a purpose. Marley was named to read the funeral service to prevent incurring the charge which the clergyman of the parish would have made, had he been desired to attend. The poor overseer had been in good health some few days previously and on Marley's remarking the suddenness of his death, Wogan exclaimed, "People say, this is the best poor man's country in the world to live in; but I cannot agree to this saying: for although I have been here twenty years, I am still as poor as when I came first. I can I safely say however, it is the best for either a poor or a rich man to die in. Here, one is not tied up on a sick bed for weeks and weeks as in some places. No, no! Things happen far better in this island, where one is not fated to linger long on a deathbed. Two or three days at the farthest make a finish of a man, and surely it is far preferable to drop off thus suddenly, than to linger in pain, till one regrets that the thread of life is so tenacious. Besides too, we get so accustomed to death, by the frequency of the quick exits, that it furnishes only an hour's talk, ere it is forgotten. We do not whine and regret at what is inevitable nor do we render life bitter by thinking always on death. I again say that is the most blessed country for any man who justly appreciates the advantages of a speedy exit from his terrestrial habitation."

The overseer had died somewhat wealthy. It was shrewdly suspected that Wogan had some idea of being appointed his executor, and as is customary, after the grave was closed, the party returned to the buckra-house in expectation of hearing the defunct's will read. It was accordingly read; but as Wogan was not the overseer named as executor, he very soon took his leave, and being accompanied by Marley who had got into his good graces, they rode towards their homes. But, before the house they had left was out of sight, Wogan, who it seems had anxiously expected the appointment to the executorship in the bitterness of disappointment, addressed Marley in language similar to the following:

"It is no wonder I am a poor man. I have never yet been appointed an executor while that fellow (meaning him who was named for the office), is always nominated. We have no reason to be surprised, therefore, at seeing him get rich while I who am passing honest and have been five and twenty years in the island, am still poor -- simply because I have never been appointed an executor."

Marley could scarcely help smiling at this rhapsody and as little could he help thinking that his companion's complaints at not being appointed an executor, savoured little of that "passing honesty," upon which he seemed so much to pride himself, for he could not conceive how such a trust could have a tendency to enrich him who did his duties justly.

Shortly after this, Marley accompanied Mr. Singleton to the town, to attend the sale of a negro boy, and a prime lot of negroes of both sexes from the Bahama Islands. In the vendue- room, he found the negroes and a numerous company of gentlemen, some assembled for the purpose of seeing if bargains might not be go, and others like himself, out of curiosity. The boy was a smart active lad, about sixteen years of age, had bred a house boy in the town, and on this account was pretty generally known. He was running about eagerly soliciting such of the town gentlemen as he wished to serve to purchase him. But finding his solicitations unsuccessful among the town gentlemen, he had recourse to the same mode among such of those from the country as he knew and thought would use him well. Among those, he, in a very especial manner urged Mr. Singleton to be his buyer. Mr. Singleton having a notion of the boy and no other person present seeming very desirous of him, he was after some few bodes bought by that gentleman, who took him home with him.

The next lot put up were the negroes from the Bahama Isle, the owners of whom had brought them thence, in the expectation of finding a better market in Jamaica than in any of the Bahamas. Previous to their being put up, Marley having observed them to be very dejected and much cast down asked one of the females the cause of her sadness, when she exclaimed, "Massa, dis country no good for him poor neger, massa. Bad, bad country for him neger, massa." On asking why she thought so, she answered, "Him buckras no good to him negers in dis country. Him no see him's massa here, for him's massa here don't work wid him poor neger, as in him's country," -- meaning the smallest of the Bahama settlements, from which she had come.

It may be proper for her to explain the cause of these negroes not relishing the mode of working in Jamaica arose from their having been the property of poor men, whose circumstances obliged them to work along with and as hard as, the negroes themselves.

In all countries where there is a paucity of negroes, this naturally occurs, and in these countries, the mode of living, and of labour is so nearly alike between master and slave that the latter is in many respects upon a par with his owner. They work together and though they may eat separately, the same kind of food feeds both. The distinction between master and slave in such situations, is, in consequence so very imperceptible as to afford no grounds of complaint; and the degree of familiarity which naturally follows from their being at all times engaged in the same kind of work and in the presence of each other is greatly to the advantage of the blacks. Slaves so situated look upon themselves as part of the family and in many instances feel deeply interested in the prosperity of their master whose interest and their own they consider to be inseparably the same. If their owner is comfortable, it follows that they reap their share equally with him; and if he is unfortunate in his crops they necessarily participate in his misery. And even although they may work harder, and fare worse than the negroes belonging to a wealthy proprietor may, they do not complain, for they see their master has to labour and to fare the same as themselves. From these very circumstances, they attach themselves to their owner and can never afterwards with any degree of pleasure, submit to be placed as common field negroes in gangs where the wide distance between them and their masters becomes so very perceptible as in the sugar colonies. Repining and discontent from such negroes may uniformly be expected and it is natural that such should follow. This lot therefore, brought, in comparison with negroes reared in the island, very low prices.

Having finished their business in the town, Mr. Singleton and Marley returned homeward. They had not proceeded more than a mile on the road when for the first time, Marley saw the negroes who had been sent to the workhouse for faults, at work upon the road. There was a considerable number of them, chained two and two, together; but with the exception of having bracelets of iron on one arm to which chains were attached their punishment was very light for they wrought in the same idle and slovenly manner that the slaves upon the estates do in general.

At nights, Mrs. Singleton, her husband, and Marley were invited to an entertainment given by one of the neighbouring gentlemen in consequence of him and his family being on the eve of leaving the island. The party was numerous. Many of the visitors were young, and among them, he remarked Miss M'Fathom and some of her friends. He went towards them to pay his respects, and, if possible, to ascertain the effects of what had happened at their last meeting. On approaching, he observed the heiress to blush, and on making his obeisance, obtained a very distant and stately reception. This nettled and disconcerted him considerably and after a short delay caused him to seek that side of the room where Mrs. Singleton with her friends were seated.

After the refreshment was over, and dancing was announced as about to commence, Marley again took an opportunity of trying whether he might not have Miss M'Fathom for a partner. But, being a little disconcerted by his first reception and somewhat afraid of a denial, yet still very unwilling that she should have it in her power to consider herself to have gained any ascendancy over him by a refusal, he had recourse to the slight finesse of appearing to be casually passing down that side of the room on which she was sitting. He watched the opportune moment to approach so that he met her as if accidentally and in a familiar but respectful manner, accosted her with his request, which however she immediately declined in consequence, she said of being previously engaged for the whole of the evening.

Without seeming to pay any regard to her refusal, he passed on, and joining a pretty little girl who was of the same party with himself, but whom he had never previously seen, he applied to her to join him in the dance, and she at once acceded. He, there upon, led her upon the floor, and they joined in the set to which Miss M'Fathom, with her party, a fine looking Creole gentleman, belonged. Marley's partner conducted herself well in the dance. He thought the heiress scrutinized his partner and him more than the others upon the floor, and he saw she endeavoured to assume more state and didn't whenever she observed him engaged in conversation with his pretty little Creole girl. This conduct flattered Marley, for he was aware such concern could not proceed from hatred, but arose from a more tender motive. This induced him to persevere in his attention to his partner throughout the night; and he found her a lively good-tempered girl, though only half educated and rather too much of the negro. Once, on his putting a question to her when she was off her guard, she returned for answer, "Him no savey, massa." She caught herself in a moment and endeavoured to laugh it off but it would not do. Her island education had shewn itself too broadly in this and a few previous slips to be so easily effaced. When, however, on her guard, she avoided her apparently customary mode of speaking tolerably well; far better than most of those so educated would have done. This lapsus lingua, however caused no alteration in his attentions to his fair partner. They were well received and she appeared to pass a pleasant and an agreeable evening; but this did not seem to be the case with Miss M'Fathom who seemed discontented and petulant, although she strove to prevent it from being seen especially by Marley. And it is probably she was well pleased at the breaking up of the party who had continued the dance to an early hour.

Next forenoon having occasion to pass the dwelling of the lady who had been his principal partner during the previous evening, Marley took advantage of the opportunity to call and enquire concerning the health of the fair inmates after the fatigue of the preceding nigh, but observing no slaves about the door, he left his horse in charge of his boy and unceremoniously entered into the hall. But although it was a house somewhat elegant, and the father reported to be in easy circumstances, he caught his fair partner with her sister and two other Creole ladies much to their vexation devouring out of an iron pot a sort of hodge- podge called okra pepper-pot completely in the negro fashion dispensing altogether with the use of table, plates, spoons, knives, and forks, although abundance of each of these articles were in the room. Whether it was from indolence to help themselves, or to save the trouble of calling for help from the house attendants (who were not few in number), or from a relish to the negro mode of living as more congenial to nature than the civilized manner, he found them employed, squatted around the pot, alternately poking their fingers into the a thick sop and then thrusting the same into their mouths. When so caught, they vanished as quickly as their legs could carry them into an adjoining room when a mulattoe girl made her appearance and removed the repast.

While waiting for their re-entrance, it may be mentioned the okra pepper-pot is a favourite dish with all Creoles and those long-colonized and may-be called the Currie of the West Indies. It is a soup in general prepared from the land crabs which abound in the island, thickened with vegetables especially with a very small pea denominated by the negroes, okra, a kind of what is called squashies, and highly seasoned with the long pepper of the island. Creole epicures are fondest of the crab kind, but when these animals are awanting, they supply their place with salt fish or salt meat, and sometimes even with fresh meat. It was this delicate savoury dish of the land crab kind upon which the fairest born of inhabitants of the colony were regaling themselves when they had the misfortune, or rather vexation to be caught by Marley.

It was sometime before they again made their appearance and when they did they had a very different dress from the single gown without petticoats, which composed their dishabille attire. Being now in a state of dress fit to see company they entered the hall and after some slight apology for being caught in undress they expressed themselves happy that they had suffered no inconveniency from the fatigue of the previous evening, of which Marley was pretty well aware from the evidence afforded by the strong nature of their morning's repast. And after chatting for some time upon casual topics, he bade the ladies adieu, with rather unfavourable impressions of the manners and uncivilized propensities of the fair Creoles who have been educated wholly in the country.

Slavery! View thee in whatever light the optics of man can behold, thou art detestable! Thou carriest a curse with thee wherever thou art introduced. Thy victims are degraded nearly to a level with the brutes which perish! And thy detestable spirit is implanted in the minds of their masters and mistresses who learn thy manners, who imbibe thy jargon of a language and all thy superstition. Slave masters may be high-minded, generous and brave -- slave mistresses may be proud, and, as such, virtuous, for pride is one of the best guardians of virtue. But being always obeyed they become passionate and unfortunately at times, unfeeling; but this is only one of the curses of slavery for otherwise they are not cruel.

Understanding that on the Sunday following, a missionary was to preach on a neighbouring estate. Marley, with the overseer Wogan, made a point of attending but in consequence of mistaking the hour, they came just when the orator had concluded his discourse. Being invited to wait for dinner upon the estate, they accepted the invitation and found the missionary one of the party, which was pretty large; the novelty of the occurrence (such preaching being very rare in that quarter) having induced numbers of the neighbouring white people to call there that Sunday to observe what was going on.

From what Marley could learn, the missionary had commented very severely on the sins which the negroes were in the daily practice of committing especially whoredom and adultery; and announced the everlasting doom which would sooner or later be the fate of the wicked. Marley asked a smart-looking negro man his opinion of the discourse, he said he did not savey much of it, but the buckra mentioned one damnation, strong fellow called Samson, (meaning, evidently, a strong Maroon negro) who killed five hundred militia men but this was before he began running after the girls, for after that he lost his grandey strength. So much for his knowledge of preaching and as much to be expected, few of the negoes would be better informed than him. The advantages therefore which they are likely to derive from such a mode of instruction without some previous education will be of a very nugatory kind. But whether the negroes were really sad after hearing the woes denounced against the sins of which they were guilty or whether the overseer only thought so, Marley could not with any certainty learn. It seems, however, that the overseer was of this opinion for as an antidote to the sadness of his people he gave notice that there would be a ball in the buckra-house after dinner.

Such intention being communicated to the people, they prepared for the occasion and crowded merrily into the hall, apparently better pleased with the species of amusement which was on the eve of commencing than they had been with the instruction which was passed, for they were all laugh and talkee. When the fiddles struck up, the amazement of the missionary was so strongly depicted on his countenance as to baffle all words to describe, for as he at the time was placed in such a part of the piazza as precluded him from seeing what was going on in the hall, he had not till then the slightest idea of such a termination of his day's labour. He had been civilly treated upon the estate even to his own satisfaction and on receiving an invitation to stop with them a few days, he had made his arrangements to remain but this latter conduct of the overseer appeared to him not only of an irreligious nature, but also bordering so closely on the nature of a personal indignity as to be impossible to be borne by him. It seemed to him as if that gentleman wished to turn his lessons into ridicule. The good sense of the missionary taught him that his wisest course of acting was to make no reflections and to say nothing what-so-ever about the matter. Although he did not know where he could seek a night's lodgings with any prospect of success, he came to the resolution of instantly departing as Marley observed from his desiring one of the negro boys to saddle and bring him his horse. No interruption was offered to his departure, and Wogan and Marley felt hurt at seeing him treated in the manner as the overseer was doing. He was a stranger in the country and in this quarter totally unacquainted, and whatever might be the opinions of the white people among whom he was, it was evident that he had come into the island with the intention of doing good. Wogan and Marley in consequence at the same time, ordered their boys to bring them their horses, and they departed along with the missionary, whom Marley invited to accompany him to Singleton Hall. The preacher thankfully accepted the invitation and they rode together to the estate, the missionary indulging fewer reflections on the mode of his treatment, than naturally might have been expected.

The missionary in the course of the conversation during the ride made mention of having resided in the island some few years prior to the event, and in consequence he was no stranger to the people of every caste nor unacquainted with their manners. He made numerous remarks upon slavery and other matters connected with the colony. In particular, he declaimed violently against the friend of the Indians, Las Casas, who first advanced, and strongly advocated the scheme of introducing African slaves into these islands in order to spare the lives of the native Indians; a scheme, the intent of which has proved abortive, for these Indians cease to exist. "What a pity it is," exclaimed he, "that such an idea was ever propagated far more so that it was ever carried into execution. What paradises would these islands have been had their inhabitants been the descendants of white men in place of black ones. Nothing in the whole world would have surpassed or even would have equaled them. They would have been the seats not only of pleasure but of intelligence, industry, and wealth. The descendants of the Europeans would have been enabled to cultivate the soil of the country in which they were born. The climate of these islands would have been their native one, and as such, their constitutions would be inured to every species of labour which from man can be required even in the tropical regions.

"But unfortunately," continued he, "the great body of the population is black. And in whatever light white people may view them, there is, I must confess, an involuntary feeling apparently implanted in the breasts of white men by nature herself, that black men are a race distinct and inferior to those whom providence has blessed with a fair complexion. This distinction of colour forms, indeed such an impassable boundary between these two races of mankind, that it would seem to countenance the general supposition that Providence, in the wise dispensation of earthly affairs, has formed them to be hewers of wood and drawers of water to those of the favoured caste distinguished by complexions less dark. Prejudice of every sort apart, would any white man associate with a black man upon terms of equality if he could possibly avoid it; or would the most violent of the declaimers for the abolition fail to shudder at the very idea of consigning his daughter into the arms of a negro as her husband? What mother would acknowledge a black man as her daughter's husband, or a negress as the wife of her son? None, I am convinced could without feelings of horror. They would consider such a degradation, as the ruin of their family and the ruin of their own character and would view it as a judgement from Heaven for sins which they had committed and for which they had not atoned and appeased the divine wrath. This would be the feelings of British parents if they placed themselves in such a situation; and from this, the inference follows, that they, as well as the whole of the white race consider themselves as the superiors over the race who are black."

He would have descanted farther on this topic, had not Wogan interrupted him by saying:

"My friend, there cannot be a doubt of the correctness of the inference which you have drawn. All white people whether humane or inhumane, and in whatever degree they may declaim in favour of the blacks, must in their own minds entertain a similar opinion. In fact, they would even consider themselves degraded if a supposition were upheld of equality existing between them. Mark, then, what consequences we may expect to be the result when black men are placed on the same footing with those who are white. It is surely not unnatural to suppose that black men may become rich, and that then it might often happen that there would be white parents so unfeeling as to consign to the arms of the old and frail through wealthy negroes, their lovely daughters blooming in all the charms of youth, innocence, delicacy, and gaiety. In the course of time, may we not expect to see many of those, the fairest of nature's works, doomed to the arms of blackness and ugliness -- to the arms of those whose very appearance to white persons causes involuntary shudderings and dislike, and, in the arms of such, condemned to wither, fade, and prematurely drop into the grave? What young woman possessed of any delicacy would not feel horror to be thus sacrificed? Would she not pine and droop at finding all the flattering prospects which hope tells to the young female mind, completely blasted, and totally vanished from her fond anticipated view? What other comfort could she conceive yet remained for her than hiding herself in 'the house appointed for all living'? Many, many, would from this cause, find an early tomb.

"Yet such scenes must to a certainty frequently occur, when free negroes become rich. And in the course of time, many must become wealthy not only from their preponderating numbers over the other classes, but from the natural ideas of castes, which will naturally cause the blacks to purchase from those of their own colour in preference to those of other castes; this, to the almost certainty of enriching the black merchant. This, no doubt, must be the work of time, but if the whites should be enabled to retain their possessions in these colonies in the event of such a revolution, the time will not be so far distant as many anticipate. And it is a fact which everyone who has any knowledge of the negro character must admit that there is not a black man in these colonies but would have a white wife, nay, even more than one if he could obtain them. And also, that there is not a black female who would not give the preference to a white man over every one of her own colour as a husband.

"Now, when nothing is heard or talked of but the abolition of slavery and when almost every person is advancing his own scheme as the wisest and most practicable, I myself, have for some time been thinking of gravely proposing mine, by petitions to the King, Peers, and Commons, as one more practicable than any that I have yet heard of. I, who look upon myself as a friend to the negroes, but no lover of their colour would do it, if I was not deterred by the consideration of giving umbrage to the owner of the estate upon which I live, who, I understand, is a Member of the Society for the Suppression of Vice, and who might probably think it somewhat bordering on the immoral.

"The plan, which in other circumstances than those in which I am placed, I would propose would be that of whitening the people, and the moment a black lady ushered into the world a brown child, the moment of its birth should be the commencement of its freedom, and not to be wanting in kindness to those black mothers who aided in the whitening scheme, I would confer freedom on anyone of them who had four brown children alive at one time. This would be a strong inducement to the mothers to rear such children, and I have no doubt of its ultimate success, if the lovers of the blacks at home would not thwart the project by nice distinctions between virtue and vice -- distinctions, by the way, very little understood in this western archipelago.

"Slavery, in this manner, would not only gradually terminate, but the black colour would silently and ultimately vanish from the British Colonies, and surely there is no white man living who would not wish for such an era, in preference to these countries remaining inhabited by a population of such a somber hue as the negro complexion. While, however, this encouragement to a brown population was given, I, like every other good Christian, would be just at the same time that I was generous and would compensate the planters whose servants were lost to them by these means, by an equitable remuneration."

The Missionary probably thought his province invaded by such a scheme, though, in principle, it was on the opposite extreme from the doctrine which he taught. He, nevertheless, interrupted the old overseer, by lamenting the degeneracy and sinfulness of human nature, which could occasion such an apparently unnatural and repugnant association, as that has taken place between white and black people.

"That may be all true," replied Wogan, "but for my part, I take human nature as I find it; and we all know that such things have been, and are, and in all human probability, will be, till the end of time. Therefore, even although no legislative interference should ever ensue, or even although no bounty should ever be offered for the purpose of effecting such an end, the natural inclinations of man will lead him to act in the same manner as they led his progenitors, ever since the blacks made their appearance in these islands; and from these premises, there is not impossibility in supposing that in the course of time the negro complexion will give place to one more fair. Although, probably, hundreds of years may elapse before the population is generally whitened, I have no hesitation, in my own mind, in saying, from perceiving it progressive even in the course of my own observations that it will inevitably take place, provided the Europeans, for such a length of time, retain possession of their colonies.

"Father, I do not think I am supposing impossibility, even if I maintain that the whole of Africa, in the course of ages, will undergo a whitening, nay, even to the total extinction of the black colour, should the Europeans remain the enterprising and civilized race which they have evinced themselves to be since the discovery of the polarity of the magnetic needle. I am much inclined to be of opinion, that the commencement of such an era is not so very far distant as many may contemplate, especially when we consider that outlets to European enterprise will very soon become requisite, for the state of dormancy in colonizing, which has characterized almost all Europe for the last half century, will inevitably give place to a less torpid state of feeling on such a subject. The mind of man is active, and when from the cessation of wars, there is no other enterprising scheme to engage the attention of the adventurous part of the youth of Europe, the inclinations of such will tend towards the colonization of foreign countries as the next most desirable object of pursuit.

"Whenever such a spirit of colonization pervades the nations of Europe, where can they look for a field so capable of rewarding their exertions and one so near at hand as Africa? Colonies will then, to a certainty, sooner or later, be founded in that continent on a grand scale, and not in imitation of the few paltry settlements which the Europeans at present hold for the sake of a paltry commerce; formed too, either on swamps, or in the neighbourhood of morasses, or at any rate, in such situations as are uncongenial to the inhabitants of a temperate climate. These countries of Africa, which the Europeans will colonize on an extensive scale as agricultural countries, will gradually become more congenial to health, in proportion as agriculture is extended, for then, the jungle, and the forests, will be cut down, and the marshes drained, after which the time will soon arrive when they will be equally salubrious with the West Indies.

"When this new and happy era for Africa begins, at the same moment the whitening of the sable race will commence, and proceed in an equally rapid manner with what was effected in the American colonies. And certainly there are strong grounds for presuming that the dark hue of the negro may eventually cease to exist, and assume that of brown. But, at what age of the world this event may be expected, I am not prophet enough to conjecture."

The Missionary did not seem to relish Wogan's assumptions respecting the disappearance of the Ethiopian colour. But finding that he had an eccentric fellow to deal with, he perceived that contradiction would answer no good end; the consequence was that if he did not agree in sentiment with the overseer, he outwardly did not dissent.

Wogan had not terminated many minutes before the party came to the cross-road leading to his home where they parted; Wogan taking the cross-road, and the Missionary proceeding onwards with Marley to Singleton Hall. Marley introduced that gentleman to Mr. Singleton, explaining his reasons for so intruding a stranger as his guest. From the natural politeness of Singleton, he was welcomed in a friendly enough manner to his house. But somehow or other, the Missionary took umbrage at Mr. Singleton's rough mode of expressing himself, for next day he departed from the property on a journey to a leeward estate, and Marley saw him no more.

Some days after this, Marley observed from the newspapers, that the son of a gentleman with whom he had been acquainted in Edingurgh, and whom he had often seen when a boy had advertised that he was a prisoner in the jail of the parish town, for debt, and had intimated his intention of taking the benefit of the Insolvent Act, or as it is regularly termed, he was to undergo a white-washing. In consequence, Marley went to see him, before going to see a horse race, which was to commence in the vicinity a few hours afterwards in order that he might learn from him, what he knew of his father and mother, concerning whom, he judged it probable he would recollect some circumstance which might ultimately be advantageous to his interest. On his arrival, he went to the prison, and on enquiry was told that the person he wanted was a residenter there, but on requesting to see him, he was informed that he had gone out with a few of his fellow-prisoners about an hour previous to visit or make calls upon some acquaintances in the town. Marley was somewhat surprised and thought that there certainly must be a mistake for it did not appear to him that any prisoners would be allowed to leave their house of confinement when it suited their convenience or inclinations. He was, however, put to rights in this respect by being informed that the prisoners for debt had such a liberty at that time in consequence of a grand jury having found the jail insecure. He was advised either to call in two or three hours, when he would have a chance of seeing him, or if he would take the trouble, he would most probably find the person he sought at a place which the informant pointed out.

He accordingly went in search of the prisoners and in a short time observed about half a dozen of persons who had something the appearance of jail birds when he accosted one of them who at once introduced him to his townsman. Taking him aside, he invited him to a tavern, and explaining who he was the prisoner at large instantly remembered and recognized him and could speak with certainty of his father's and mother's marriage and reported death; but not being a residenter in the same parish, he did not know M'Fathom farther than by occasionally seeing him.

After obtaining such satisfactory information, Marley inquired the cause of his companion's want of success in the island, but he evaded the question in the general way, by saying that he had been unfortunate in his speculations, and in consequence was compelled to take the benefit of the act. Enquiring after a number of others who had embarked along with him for the country, he learned that in the course to ten years, they had all died with the exception of one other and himself and that one had put up his name in the Secretary's Office, intimating his intention to remove from the colony in terms of the law of the country but though it was well known that he had no funds of any description, one of his creditors had the cruelty to lodge a caveat against him in the same office whereby he was prevented from leaving the island. He had no other alternative than to remain, and was gaining at that time his living in the best way he could; having ruined himself from his want of skill in the liberal sciences of gambling, horse-racing, and cockfighting, favourite amusements in the country -- and the same cause was the reason why the present prisoner was unsuccessful in life, as Marley afterwards learned.

Marley then bade the prisoner adieu, and rode towards the race-course to behold a celebrated race between a horse brought from Yankee land, and said to have been bred in that country; the owners of which, in the true spirit of Yankee braggadocio, made a public vaunt of the excellency of their animal by betting several hundred doubloons against anything reared in the island, for best of three heats. The bet accordingly was taken up and much money depended on the issue, the island Jews having taken the side of the said-to-be- Yankee; while the island Christians piqued for the honour of their country, opposed them. Bets in consequence ran very high among the contending parties; but so certain did it appear to the children of Israel, that the Yankee would come off the victor, that not satisfied with the private bets which had been made, they got together a thousand guineas, and had them deposited in a bag, which they affixed to a halbert, and had carried among the booths at the starting post, with a defiance to the Christians to take it up. This challenge did not remain long unaccepted, for a few Christians, who were drinking rum and water in a booth, hearing it, made up the sum, which, in imitation of their unbaptized brethren, they displayed in a similar public manner, opposing it to the Jews' bag.

Shortly afterwards the horses started, and went off in gallant style from amidst a concourse of anxious spectators; the Jews, however, seemed much more elated than the Christian. In fact, the features of the Israelites had fixed into that sort of a grinning sneer, which bespoke, as plainly as a Jewish sneer could indicate that they were assured of pocketing the blunt, and taking in the Gentiles -- but a very few minutes afterwards, brought the horses to the winning- post, the sland animal a full head before the vaunted Yankee. The judges, accordingly, declared the first heat to be in favour of the island horse; upon which, a surprising change from elevation to depression was simultaneously portrayed on the countenances of the descendants of Abraham. Hope, however, did not altogether vanish from their sordid breasts, and though the bets were rather against them, they continued to take them up, till the second heat terminated by the discomfiture of their expectations, the island bred racer carrying it also, and, thereby, all the knowing ones were justly taken in. By this time the features of the progeny of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, were truly picturesque. Their careworn countenances visibly betrayed vexation, anger, and depression, for the loss of the gains which they assuredly anticipated and looked upon as their own. So chagrined did they look, that many of the Christians whom they intended to have duped really did think that had not the bets been deposited and now beyond the reach of their knowing opponents, that they would have set up the cry, "To your tents, O Israel," so much indeed did their elongated visages betray their grief for the success which the Christian had gained over them, and the unexpected loss they had sustained.

That their expectations of coming off victoriously were not ill-founded, soon transpired; for if was afterwards whispered about, and the fact ascertained that the said-to-be-Yankee was actually a racer from Newmarket carried to Yankee land, and from thence brought to the Island, in the certainty of carrying out of it a few spare doubloons; but the speculation proved unfortunate, and the Jews who were in the secret out-Jewed themselves to the great joy of the Christians who pocketed the spoil.

This race was followed by some others of minor import, which terminated the sports of the day.

CHAPTER XIII

SHORTLY after these races, the people in this part of the country were considerably alarmed upon hearing that the master of a jobbing gang had been strangled in his bedroom by some of his own negroes. His name was Grandison, and during his residence in the island, he had acquired as much money, as enabled him to purchase and become a jobber with his own slaves. In every character, there is something contradictory, and in Grandison, the spirit of contradiction was manifested in a very striking manner. Towards his equals, he shewed a humane and compassionate disposition, but his conduct in the treatment of his negroes was so unfeelingly tyrannical and cruel, that it was universally reprobated. As a companion, his equals found him a social, warm-hearted man, whose temper seemed always happy and cheerful while in their company and altogether devoid of every species of domineering. His friendship did not consist solely in his social qualifies, for few men would make greater pecuniary sacrifices to assist a friend in distress, and although he was frequently a sufferer from such a cause, it had not sufficient power to withhold this sympathetic trait in his characte r.

But this amiable state of mind entirely disappeared when he was among his own slaves. With them, he was of the most capricious and violent temper imaginable, and so unmercifully devoid to tender feeling towards his own people, that he was universally denominated, "Cruel Grandison." Had he been a military man, he would have been called a strict disciplinarian, and we know all strict disciplinarians must often be cruel. The consequence was that flogging was uncommonly frequent, and often cruelly severe amongst his gang. No faults committed by any of his people were ever forgiven. The most trivial brought upon them punishment and sometimes these punishments were afflicting. So accustomed had he become to the sight of seeing torture inflicted that his feelings for the slaves had become obtuse, so much so, indeed, that many people were uncharitable enough to suppose that he could have stood and beheld a negro flogged to death with the most cool indifference; and yet it is remarked that he never lost one of his slaves in consequence of his cruel usage towards them. So far from it, they were always healthy and on the increase with him, owing to his being attentive to their wants, and also to their comforts in every other respect than that in which he assumed the character of a strict disciplinarian. In short, the character of Grandison in his walk through life, had he never been entrusted with power, would have been that of an amiable well-disposed man; but, unhappily, like too many others when armed with authority, he was a tyrant, unfeeling, and cruel, though cloaked under a military term, which, in strict language, conveys no reproach.

"But man, proud man, drest in a little brief authority, Plays such fantastic tricks before high Heaven,

As make even angels weep."

Such a man was Grandison. The punishments inflicted by him, at last aroused the resentment of his people against him, and led to the loss of his life. Injustice and tyranny, affect a negro slave, in a manner, similar to what they would affect a man of any other race, and the negroes in this instance thought proper, and naturally enough to seek no other redress than revenge. Cruelty and oppression, inflicted by any man, sooner or later, brings its reward with it, by the infliction of a merited, though perhaps an unlawful, punishment. Where such single instances of tyranny exist however, it would be unfair and unjust to relate the same, otherwise than as the isolated cases of individuals, and not applicable farther than as rare and special cases, which may undoubtedly occur in every slave colony. But such individual cases can never form a general rule to judge of the treatment of the negroes or to estimate the characters of the managers by without the most gross injustice towards the white people; and likewise, from thence drawing the unjust conclusion that the lot of the negro is harder and more lamentable than is really the fact. Whatever might have been the fate of the negroes in former days, very few similar cases are now to be found, and where such cruelty on the part of an individual exists, it is made very manifest, by the hatred evinced by the people under his dominion, and from the rumours of conspiracies formed against him, which though frequently do not always prove abortive, as the following instance fatally illustrates.

The immediate occurrence which led to Grandison's death was thus reported. -- One day, while working his gang upon an estate called Persia, a few miles distant from his own house; he had flogged several of his slaves for some very trivial faults. Among the sufferers, there was an old African negro called Cambridge, a Coromantee who had long been his head driver, and was previously a great favourite with his master. Before ordering him to be punished he had cashiered him from being head driver and as Cambridge had held that highest of slave situations for years, during which period he had never been punished, it was more afflicting to him. The loss of his situation with the punishment which he had undergone appears to have buried in oblivion all the former acts of favour and of kindness which his master had conferred upon him, and he now burned for revenge. Like all others of the Coromantyn nation, Cambridge was of a resentful, revengeful disposition, and in consequence, his whole thoughts kept brooding over the degradation he had suffered and in planning schemes for an effectual retaliation. Though somewhat advanced in years, he was still a stout raw-boned man, but being, notwithstanding, fearful of trying his strength against his master, he looked out for associates.

The first he cast his eyes upon was a Creole boy named Nelson, about twenty years of age, who was much attached to him in consequence of being left under his charge by his father before he died, who had belonged to the same nation as Cambridge. From this circumstance, he was sanguine he would succeed in engaging him to join in the plot. Nelson being a thoughtless, fearless boy, was easily deduced partly by means of promises of reward, and partly by pointing out to him in the most enticing manner he possibly could, the happy prospects that would await them by being placed under a new master in place of their present cruel one whose character at the same time he took especial care to picture in the very worst light in his power. Nelson who like all other young persons was fond of changes listened eagerly to what he advanced and readily agreed to act a part in the scene. Encouraged with this easy success, he with less fear sounded Jack, a Mundingo, a middle aged negro who had been flogged along with him. Jack, in consequence was anxious to become one of the acters, and assented with pleasure to take a prominent part. At the request of Cambridge, Jack opened the matter to his friend Ned, a Mungola, who had no hesitation in forming another. And the last whom they solicited to join in the conspiracy was a Moco, of the name of Sam who also was happy to become a sharer in freeing the earth of the hated object of their revenge, for such ideas in some of their bosoms had long lain latent and only required a spark to inflame and a proper leader to direct it.

These five concealed their secret so effectually in their own breasts, that no suspicions transpired throughout the day while each was ruminating on the best mode of accomplishing their end. With the evening, the gang was finished their jobbing work upon Persia estate and in consequence, they were ordered to their own home, on their Master's Settlement. While on the road, these five contrived the mode of effecting their murderous scheme and fixed upon that very night for the purpose.

Grandison and his boy arrived at his house from a neighbouring estate about one o'clock in the morning. The plotters were on the watch and no sooner saw this boy leave the house to go to sleep in the negro huts, then, unnoticed they cautiously proceeded to the house. After allowing as much time to elapse as they thought enough for their master to be asleep, they gently forced the door, and made a rush into the bedroom, when four of the conspirators seized him, to prevent his getting hold of any of the fire-arms in the room. Grandison was half awake by the time he was so laid hold of but it was too late for him to procure any means of defence.

A scene remarkable for its similarity to the description of the murder of the late Emperor Paul of Russia, immediately ensued. As must be expected, Grandison was in a dreadful state of alarm and terror. He must have been certain that their purpose could be nothing less than death to him. Four of them were holding him while Cambridge was adjusting the noose on a rope which he had brought along with him. In the utmost horror and consternation, he entreated for mercy. He implored each of them by name to spare him. He, in the most extreme agony and horror, exclaimed that he would make them all free. He solemnly promised that he would give them money and property to commence the world, provided they would only save his life.

Some of the negroes, thereupon seemed to hesitate upon what side to lean whether to that of mercy, the promise of freedom and wealth or to that of murder. Seeing his associates fearful and undetermined, Cambridge cried to them, "Believe him not! Death, instead of freedom and wealth, await you, if mass lives;" and to Grandison, he exclaimed in the same breath, "No, no, massa! You never forgive one of us for begging" -- meaning for mercy. Saying which Cambridge had adjusted the rope around his master's neck, unmindful of his rending cries for mercy and thereupon strangled him -- in this manner terminated the life of Grandison, for being a strict, and consequently, a cruel, disciplinarian.

After having perpetrated their murderous deed, the conspirators adjusted the bed on which their master had been lying. They then laid the body upon it, and covered it with the bed clothes. They afterwards put everything in the room into such a state, as they thought most probably would tend to hide the manner in which their master had come to his end, expecting it would lead to a suspicion that he had died a natural death, or at any rate, that it would leave the circumstance of his death a mystery such as could afford no clue to their discovery and detection. They endeavoured to make the door fast again as nearly in the state in which it had previously been as they possibly could, and then left the scene of their guilt.

Next day, an inquest was held on the body at which time the violent marks on the next of the deceased were discovered. From this, the gentlemen forming the inquest were perfectly convinced that the deceased could not have effected the same himself and the evident marks of suffocation betrayed by the livid colour of his neck and face proclaimed that he had come by his end by means of violence. The negroes, however had concerted and executed their part very well; for, with the exception of the mark of the rope, and the conclusive appearance of strangulation the inquest could discover no other appearance either upon he body or within the chamber which could serve in the slightest degree to trace a course for discovering the perpetrators of the horrid deed. The door afforded the only sign of proof that the murderers had come from without in consequence of the negroes being unable to put it so exactly into its former state, as to leave imperceptible the marks of violence having been used. The coroner, therefore, after examining all the evidence which he thought might lead to a discovery of the guilty individuals, advised the jury to return a verdict of murder against some person or persons unknown. These gentlemen returned a verdict accordingly but as the evidence adduced had had some slight tendency to raise a suspicion that Cambridge and some others were concerned in the perpetration of the murderous deed, he along with his accomplices and several others were apprehended. The five guilty conspirators were interrogated in a very strict manner without betraying the slightest sign of having been concerned, or even of knowing anything of the matter. But those who were innocent although implicated in the charge furnished a host of evidence although not altogether direct but which from the circumstance of the five persons whom we have mentioned being shewn to have been absent from their houses when the deed was committed and the time of their return having been noticed by some of their companions afforded an indirect yet a pretty conclusive proof of their having been the parties guilty of the horrid crime.

These were a second time re-interrogated but still without anything transpiring from them towards an explanation of the death of their master. In this inexplicable manner, the circumstance of the murder remained for several days till Sam, tormented by the thoughts of the crime in which he had been an actor, together with his love of life, divulged the whole affair on the promise of being admitted as evidence against his associates. From his evidence, proof was easily obtained sufficient to satisfy a jury of their guilt, and accordingly a Grand Jury returned a True Bill and after undergoing a fair and legal trial, they were condemned to die.

During the period between the day of the sentence and the day on which they were to make atonement for their crime, they had all confessed being guilty; but, with the exception of Nelson, none of them could be brought to repent of the act. Nelson, however, was inconsolable, and pleaded hard for mercy, urging the manner in which he had been induced by Cambridge to become a participator in the criminal deed, a person by whom he had been instructed and had always looked up to as if he had been his father, but, for such a foul and murderous deed, no mercy could reasonably be expected. The three others appeared altogether unconcerned and quite regardless of the awful situation which their crime had brought them into and would not even hearken to any instructions regarding the state of the departed after their sojourn upon earth.

When the day of terminating their existence came round, no signs of compunction in either of these three were visible. While on the road towards the fatal tree, they appeared equally unconcerned, as if they had been going to their daily work. Though they had never heard of the principles of Stoicism, they were truly Stoics. They smoked their cigars, chatted, and laughed at each other as if nothing whatever was to happen to them. Even upon the fatal spot, these victims betrayed neither fear nor repentance. Nay, so far from it, they insulted those who had charge of them, and gloried in the crime for which they were to suffer an ignominious death. Jack was the first who mounted the fatal ladder. He did so not with fear and trembling, but with the most cool indifference, jesting and laughing with those around him, and exulting in the part he had performed in depriving his master of his life.

Nelson's turn to mount came next. Ever since his condemnation, he was truly distressed and scarcely did anything but weep and lament his unhappy fate unless it were sometimes to curse his unhappy stars that had led him to listen to the arch fiend, Cambridge, who ought to have acted as a father towards him, instead of a betrayer. While weeping and bitterly lamenting his fate, he was launched into eternity and thus a termination was put to all his earthly wailings. Ned, in succession followed equally careless and indifferent as his friend Jack, and without anything particular being shewn by him. Farther than that, he exhibited strong marks of displeasure against the executioner, for not allowing him time to finish the cigar he had been smoking before shoving him of the ladder.

Cambridge, the instigator of the plot, mounted last. He ascended the steps with firmness, expressing his exultation and pleasure at the prominent part he had acted in the tragical death of his master. To him the idea of leaving life was nothing, but it appeared he was determined to evade the sentence, if possible for when he had ascended so high as the rope he suddenly cast himself off the ladder, and fell upon a quantity of stones which happened to lye underneath. His intention was evidently to murder himself, and thereby thwart justice in carrying his sentence into effect as probably he thought he would thereby deprive the whites of the gratification of seeing him hanged. He was instantly picked up and though he bled profusely and had one of his arms fractured, he was not so deadly hurt as might have been expected from the height and from the materials on which he fell. Again he was compelled to ascent proper precautions being taken to prevent his attempting to evade justice a second time and while muttering curses and horrid execrations against the whites his life was extinguished.

And in this manner were terminated the lives of five human beings, originating solely from the cause of one of them having been a rigid disciplinarian. All who have power over man, ought to remember that justice should be administered in mercy or that a fate similar to Grandison's may one day be theirs. For man is man, and whatever his colour may be, oppression and injustice will ultimately lead to revenge.

Another instance of a somewhat similar nature occurred at a short distance in the same parish a few months previous to the one above, detailed under circumstances considerably different from those of Grandison's case, and which tends to shew the difficulty of managing any class of mankind. It was that of an overseer of the name of Emery, a man who in his temper was not violent and in his disposition was anything but cruel to the slaves under his charge, but who was of an unsteady nature and very fickle and changeable in his inclinations. Such of the negroes as were favourites with him, he treated with a degree of familiarity, totally at variance with the conduct which becomes a man who desires to retain any sway over his servants or inferiors. But, in general, his favour did not last long towards any one individual. He was continually changing one favourite for another and in this manner he had acted for a series of years without any bad effect arising from so capricious a disposition. It seems, however, that his waiting boy, Billy, a man about thirty years of age, who had long retained his good opinion, and had been treated with the greatest degree of kindness, had given him umbrage, the consequence of which was that he was dismissed from his employment, and sent to work in the gangs as one of the field negroes.

Billy felt piqued and irritated at thus being displaced from a life of idleness, ease, and pleasure, for one of hard labour. To him who had been pampered by the luxuries of the buckra-house, it appeared a species of insufferable degradation to be compelled to toil and fare like a common negro. From the familiarity and kindness to which he had formerly been accustomed, respect for the overseer had so far vanished, that he considered him not so much in the light of his master, as of his equal. Forgetful of every past favour, or more probably viewing the cause of them as a species of weakness on the part of his master, and wishing to return the benefits for which he ought to have been grateful, with ingratitude, his whole thoughts were bent on revenge. Like all other negroes, however, he was afraid singly to try his strength against his master. He therefore engaged three of his acquaintances whom he knew to bear no good will towards the overseer to join him in the plot. These waited an opportunity for effecting their purpose unperceived, and unfortunately an early one occurred. The overseer had gone to a neighbouring estate to pass the afternoon, and Billy, knowing from experience, that it would be dark before he returned, concealed himself with his associates in a thicket on the side of the road which his master had to pass. The sound of the footsteps of the horse of the unfortunate Emery announced his approach and when he was close in with the thicket, Billy with his companions seizing the opportune moment sprung out from their lurking place, and attached him with bludgeons in so unmerciful a manner, that they murdered him in a few seconds. And in this savage manner was deprived of existence in the prime of his days, a kind hearted and amiable though whimsical gentleman.

Emery's boy who happened to be at some little distance behind, hearing the noise made up to the spot as quick as the speed of his mule could carry him and on his approach he saw his master lying upon the ground, covered with blood, a mangled corpse. It occasioned dreadful alarm to him, for he saw no person who might have perpetrated the deed. But seeing that he could not in a manner benefit his master, he rode towards home, and gave the alarm to the white people and negroes on the estate, the consequence of which was an immediate and general search to discover the guilty. Billy and his associates were found absent from the negro huts. Suspicion therefore fell upon them, and in the search they were discovered by a party of negroes skulking in a thicket of bamboos, and were brought by them, prisoners, to the buckra-house. They at once admitted their guilt, and after a legal trial, were condemned and executed for the crime.

Many similar instances of murders which have occurred in the country might be detailed; but, as it is a subject which shews human nature in its greatest state of depravity, we will drop any farther details and conclude with observing that since instances of murder happen in European countries, it would be truly wonderful if such bloody deeds were unknown in a slave colony, where the passions of men are fostered by the grossest ignorance. It does not follow, however that victims are selected by the negroes in consequence of their cruelty or hard treatment; for the humane as well as the severe, have fallen sacrifices to the caprice of their servants. That the character of slaves in general is anything but grateful, the following instance selected from many will establish.

A gentleman who was proprietor of a coffee mountain a little distance in the interior from Singleton Hall, possessed nearly a hundred negroes whom he had lately purchased from the representatives of an owner deceased who bore the character of having been far from mild to his people. The gentleman was so embarrassed in his circumstances that he was utterly at a loss to procure credit for fish or clothing, such as he ought to have furnished his slaves. But having been always a tender and an indulgent master to his negroes whose management he superintended himself, he felt for them, and as a compensation for the want of fish and the delay which his necessities compelled him to submit to in regard to their clothing, he allowed them an additional day in the week to work for themselves to his own great detriment. The negroes did not fail to avail themselves of this additional time, and from it realized for themselves far more than was sufficient to procure them an adequate supply of clothing and a weekly allowance of fish. In fact, they were enabled, as most of them actually did to make themselves comfortable both in regard to food and dress. This system continued for a length of time during which the negroes were easily enabled to procure more than their master was obliged to allow them, from having the whole of the week to themselves with the exception of four days which they had to work for their master. But although they availed themselves of their owner's goodness and as they well knew at a very considerable loss to him was far above what the cost of their customary allowance of fish and clothing would have amounted to, they made a formal complaint to a Magistrate against him for failing to provide them with fish and clothing, in terms of the Statute -- upon which a fine was inflicted on him, and he was obliged to make a considerable sacrifice to procure them such articles as they desired. In this manner did they shew their gratitude to the man whose sole study was directed towards making them comfortable. Unfortunately, they attributed that kindness and indulgence which was naturally implanted in his breast to arise from his want of intellect and from his ignorance. The consequence of such kind and lenient treatment was very different from what naturally might have been anticipated; for the whole negroes were so far from respecting their master for possessing such a trait in his character, despised him, and even instanced his kindness as a blemish when contrasted with the severity of their former owner. But the negro character is in general extreme selfishness, more especially where they are wrought in gangs. They do not seem to possess any attachment to the interest of their master; and even though they may uniformly receive kind treatment, they repay it by ingratitude, a vice which appears to be the predominant feature exhibited in the negro disposition.

About the time of Grandison's death, a visitant from the mountains made his appearance on Singleton Hall called Chance, a Chama. He was a strong, healthy, old negro, who belonged to the property but with the exception of a short annual visit, he had not been many days upon the estate for the last ten years. From the circumstance of his return at regular periods, it seemed that he had some means of calculating time to a nicety, for it was remarked that he uniformly made his visit within five days of the lapse of a year from the date of his absconding. This caution on his part was dictated by his knowledge of the law which allows a master to dispose of any runaway slaves to the Spaniards or any other foreign power, if they shall have been absent for the period of a year. This was a transfer for which Chance had no liking and which it seemed he was determined never to occur, for nothing terrifies the negroes so much as the threat of being sold to the Spaniards. In such an event, they know they will never more have an opportunity of seeing their friends or their country; it is, therefore, a species of transportation of which they cannot think without horror.

Chance, at this time, was received very cool; no attention whatever was paid to him; he was not even threatened to be flogged; nay, he was not even ordered to work; for Mr. Singleton considered him in the same light as if he had not belonged to him, so satisfied was he that Chance would soon vanish from the estate, and retire to his former quarters. Chance was a good deal piqued upon observing so little consideration bestowed on him and probably had the choice been left to his option, he would more willingly have suffered a flogging than have been treated as unworthy of any attention. He however, applied to the overseer for a hoe, which being furnished to him, he turned out with the gang to which he had formerly belonged and cheerfully continued to work for a length of time which surprised not only the negroes, but the white people at the very long visit he was bestowing on them. But when he sturdily set about erecting a new house for himself, in place of his former one which had suffered much from decay, and was also observed making advances towards procuring a wife, the people began to conjecture he was now determined to become stationary. His reasons for such conduct so much at variance with his former mode of life are but conjectural, for he would furnish no intelligence on that subject.

It is probable he might either have quarreled with his companions in the mountains or that they had sent him to Coventry which had induced him to form the resolution of leaving their society and of remaining permanently on the estate, the only other home which he had. To some of his old acquaintances, he sometimes regretted the distance from the abode which he had in the mountains inconsequence as he said of the good plantation walk which he had there formed, and the yams he had planted being thereby lost to him. He also informed them that there several other negroes who had abodes in the same place and that from their intimacy with, and distance from the Maroons, these people never sought to disturb them, or offered to take any of them prisoners. They, therefore, lived happily enough in regard to provisions of a vegetable kind, and had the additional relish occasionally of a wild pig which they contrived to snare. Nevertheless, it must be a very solitary life; but the negroes have the happy knack of passing time in the state bordering on oblivion when such is their wish, and they in place of feeling that ennui which more civilized idle people complain of go to sleep and thus pass their unemployed hours.

It may be proper here to relate an incident which befell a gentleman in this neighbourhood who was considered to be well acquainted with "the bush," as it will furnish a better idea of the intricacy, nay, of the almost inextricable nature, of the forests on these mountains than any description them possibly can and at the same time shew the security the runaways possess of remaining free and unmolested in their retreat by any except the Maroons.

This gentleman had gone into the woods on which his habitation bordered for the sport of shooting the wild pigeons with which these woods abound accompanied only by a favourite spaniel. It was morning when he set out and he informed his servants that he would return long before dinner. The dinner hour came but with it, no appearance of the sportsman, and hour after hour elapsed till the afternoon was fast closing in, yet still he was absent. His people, in consequence, began to be much alarmed respecting him, fearing that he had either lost himself in the bush, or that some other accident had befallen him.

The alarm being given that such a gentleman was amissing, it soon spread among the estates in the vicinity. As the gentleman was generally beloved and respected, everyone felt anxious for his safety. As the rumour reached the different estates, work instantly ceased upon on them, and the whites for miles around hurried to his residence to learn the actual state of matters and to be directed in the manner they ought to commence a general hurt after him. Before the sun had set there were a considerable number of whites, and several hundred blacks from the neighbouring estates, upon that of the gentleman who was amissing, and who were instantly dispatched into the bush in every direction to endeavor to find him out. Some who were best acquainted with the nighest paths leading to the habitations of the Maroons were dispatched in quest of them to entreat their assistance in the search, they being by far the better hunters, besides being best acquainted with the bush, and all its bewildering intricacies.

Morning was ushered in but with it came no trace of the unfortunate sportsman. Intelligence however was obtained that the Maroons had received the notice and had set out in a general hunt after him. At this time, in addition to the Maroons, there were some hundreds of negroes all on the search and all alike eager to discover him in the expectation if fortunate of receiving a large reward. Noon came, still the gentleman was not found. Hope of finding him alive was becoming fainter and fainter, as hour after hour passed away. The prevalent opinion was when the afternoon was half spent that if he was not already dead, he could not live long, not only from the want of food, but from the slender chance he would have of finding water, together with the very severe exertions he would naturally continue to make as long as he was able in endeavouring to extricate himself from the horrible and agonizing situation in which he was wandering; as well as from the grievous anxiety which would be preying on his mind, at the thought of his hopeless and deplorable condition, thus doomed to die in the wilderness, far from the voice of friends, and far from consolation of any kind.

The sun had again descended below the horizon, and with its descent were seen the negroes, exhausted with fatigue, pouring out of the woods in numerous bodies, each party, as it came to the house, repeating the doleful tidings that it could not find the gentleman. Hours of darkness continued to pass away, till at length there were scarcely any of the negroes to return yet still to the anxious friends the few remaining brought no intelligence. Those who had been previously the most sanguine that he would be discovered and alive at length began to despond. And now it was the opinion of all who were most conversant with the bush that the chillness of the night air; and the heavy and wetting dews, would have by this time proved too powerful for his weakened system to combat and that now he was laying upon the cold earth, as cold a form. The Maroons, however, were still out, and from this circumstance, there still remained to the anxious a spark of hope; some drawing from thence the slight consolation, that it was possible they had found him, and were detained bringing him home, otherwise they would before now have come to report progress.

The hour of ten had struck, and shortly afterwards distant shouts were heard, which instantly revived the spirits of those gentlemen who were waiting to learn the final result of their hopes and fears -- the destiny of their friend. In a few minutes, a Maroon nearly out of breath from the haste which he made entered exclaiming to the inexpressible joy of the company, "Massa him got, and him hab not dead." Upon hearing this gladdening tidings, all immediately and of one accord ran forth to meet their friend. They had not left the house half an hour when they met the Maroons, carrying the gentleman on a litter which they had formed; but in so weak a state that he could scarcely articulate. He was hurried to his bed, and happily in a few days after was quite recovered. His spaniel carried in the arms of a Maroon, was equally exhausted with its master, but its recovery was less tedious.

The account which the gentleman gave, as soon as his recovery enabled him relative to his wandering the bush, was that he had followed some pigeons which had baffled him considerably, by keeping always beyond the reach of his shot. From his eagerness in following them in the different windings in which they had flown, he at length began to find himself becoming very fatigued with his overcoming exertion, together with the closeness of the woods and the heat of the day, and sat himself down upon a fallen trunk to rest. After sitting for some time, he began to ponder in his mind in what part of the woods he then was. The more he thought, the more perplexed he became, and the sun being at the time nearly vertical, he could gain no certain clue from that to guide him the way out of the woody labyrinth. However, after having rested for a little, he proceeded in search of an outlet from the forest in the direction as he supposed, of his own house; but after travelling several hours in parts which at one time he imagined he knew, and at another that he did not, he began to get somewhat anxious to reach home, and on this account hastened his steps, still proceeding in the same direction, for he had never yet imagined but that he was making straight for his dwelling. When, however, he had spent more time in endeavouring to get out of the woods, than he had taken to arrive at the place where he had rested, and when he observed that no appearance of paths such as are found in the neighbourhood of an open country, were to be seen, the reflection first crossed his mind that he had lost himself and that he was probably every step proceeding farther into the bush instead of getting out of it. This unhappily for him was too true.

All attempts to procure a glance of some known object which might answer the purpose of a landmark, proved unavailing, and every moment was adding to his sad perplexity. He was faint and weary from the severe exertion he had undergone, together with the heat of the weather, and from the unbearable and overpowering want of water, not one single drop of which could he procure. Embarrassed however as he was, he recollected stories which he had heard of the amazing sagacity of dogs; and, thereupon, immediately resolved to try the sagacity of his, in extricating them out of their distressing situation. He saw that his poor spaniel was as exhausted as himself, and had hours before given up his playful boundings now remaining stationary at his foot; he, unwilling nevertheless, as a last resource, intended ordering him home now and again and recalling him always before he had got to any great distance and endeavor thus to obtain a proper direction towards leading him out of the forest. He, accordingly, angrily and forbiddingly ordered him home, but he went only a short distance, and when he thought he was unperceived, returned. Commanding him home again and again, he found to his regret, that he only started from the point where he was ordered, and in the course of the hour in which the trials were made, he had diverged to every point of the compass. Seeing therefore that no reliance could be placed on the sagacity of his dog, he desisted from making any farther attempts with him. Probably, however, had the dog lost his master in the bush, and after searching had been unable to find him, he would have traced his way home; but while his master was in view, he only seemed desirous faithfully to abide with him.

When the shades of night overcast the earth, the unfortunate man, overcome with fatigue and with inexpressible anxiety laid himself down under a tree to endeavor to sleep till daylight once more gladdened the earth. His dog crept close to him and soon fell fast asleep. But to his master a refreshing sleep was denied from his laboring under bodily fever from want of water, from exertion, and from heat. His sensations, of a mental nature too were of a dark desponding hue. His career in the world he was afraid was near its end; but being something of a sanguine temperament, he was a little consoled by hope sometimes whispering that when the sun arose, he would be more fortunate than on the day which had then closed. While pondering in this manner, sleep set his bodily faculties at rest; but from the fever which was raging in his veins; his dreams were so terrific that rest brought only a slight mental relief with it.

With the first appearance of day, he was again awake. His fever had fortunately much abated, and from the chill of the night, with the wet from the heavy dew which had fallen, he started to his feet greatly refreshed. With a body firmly braced in comparison with its relaxed condition the preceding day, he eagerly looked out to observe from what point the sun rose; but the impenetrable nature of the bush and the deep dell in which he was, precluded him from seeing the cheering luminary while it was low on the horizon. Taking the direction which he considered the right one, he set out walking as rapidly as the many impediments which perpetually occurred, would permit. In this manner he persevered till noon; not, however, without being often obliged, during the time, to rest himself. As the day advanced and brought increasing heat along with it, he became more and more faint and feverish, and exhaustion was rapidly creeping over his frame for he could neither procure water to quench his raging thirst, nor food to restore his fading strength. His walk was becoming gradually slower and slower. Gloomy despondency was rapidly overcoming the pleasing illusions of hope, till shortly after noon he felt that nature was worn out and that he could proceed no farther. He then sat himself down at the root of a tree in a state not only of exhaustion but of unutterable despair. His recollection, however, did not forsake him. His deplorable situation at first affected him very much. When he thought of his friends, his relations, and all those who were dear to him in to the old country, whom he was doomed never again to see, the excruciating pang was so heart-rending as nearly to cause life to cease. A flood of tears, even feverish as he was, happily however, came to his relief, and lulled him into a state of calm placidity, bordering on resignation to his fate:- to die in an unknown spot in the wilderness, most probably to lie unburied and his melancholy and calamitous end to remain a secret to those to whom of all others he wished it to be known.

Exhausted nature at length sunk into a torpid state of listlessness. He could neither say that he was asleep, nor that he was awake; but in that state of dormancy called slumbering, in which hope at times pleasingly whispers flattering tales. But again despair sternly awoke him from that state of pleasing forgetfulness, and with dreadful horror staring him in the face, proclaimed that his prospects of wealth, of happiness, and of pleasure were at an end; and that the fiat of fate had decreed that he was to die in his youth in an unknown and untrodden wild, never more to be remembered. Such a termination of all his high and joyous anticipated hopes from length of days recalled life anew, and completely awoke him to a full sense of his misery. So horrible was the reflection, that to escape such an afflicting period to his existence, he imagined himself so far refreshed that they would make another struggle for life. With an effort he got upon his feet, but no sooner was he up than he reeled and fell to the ground. He again got up but he was so weak and unsteady that he was forced to sit down, and with the grief of despair he found to his sorrow that nature was exhausted, and that he was fixed as firmly to the ground he lay upon as if he had been pinioned to the spot. Death now with all its horrors appeared to his troubled senses, and to a man who was only yesterday strong in health, and sanguine in hopes, this view was affecting in the extreme, and nearly drove him into a state of distraction. The thoughts of death however, bring with them to a thinking mind, reflections which, though anything but agreeable, at least tend to soothe the mind with serious thoughts of hereafter. His strength was gone, nature was exhausted, and life was ebbing fast. The world and the world's joys were ceasing to engage his attention, and devoting while yet able, the little time he imagined he had to an after state, he implored mercy from the only power who was able to afford succor and comfort to him in his last moments.

As the sun descended, he felt increasing weakness rapidly undermining his earthly frame, and he thought he felt life gently fleeting out of his body. From what he had heard of those miserable objects who had perished in "the bush," he was sensible that he would die shortly after the sun had set, and the cool of the evening had ushered in. Resigned to his lot, for now he could not raise himself even to sit, he patiently waited for the termination of his days. Apathy and moments of insensibility were perceptibly congealing the blood, which had lately flowed with vigour and animated with health, strength, and spirits, his now worn-out frame. Life was at the last ebb, and so low was the body reduced that even the desire of life or of death had vanished. Death had more than half possession, and life was nearly extinguished when a noise instantly revived the powers of nature into almost a second existence; but it was only for a moment, for the exertion then made was too much for the feeble remains of his dregs of life, and he once more sunk into a state of apathy and forgetfulness.

The noise was occasioned by two of the Maroons who fortunately saw him, and from their experience in these melancholy moments, knew no time was to be lost. One of them immediately opened the dying man's mouth, and poured a little water into it from his horn, which almost instantly recalled the fleeting embers of life, revived his spirits, and added to his strength. By means of repetitions of this cordial, he was enabled to speak a little and to sit up. Renewed hopes of life and happiness once more took possession of his mind, and assisted in giving him forced if not real strength.

His poor dog too, which his master had for several hours forgotten, was found lying close to him similarly exhausted, and upon the same means being resorted to recover him, he gave signs of fresh animation, and was soon restored to new life.

The two Maroons themselves being unable to carry the gentleman to his home, they blew their horns to bring their companions to their assistance, and continued blowing them until they heard them answered from various quarters, and in less than an hour after finding him they were joined by about a dozen other Maroons. A litter formed of branches of trees covered with grass was speedily made, and on it the gentleman was carried in safety to his house, while another of the Maroons carried his dog and fowling piece, which one of them had found during the search. Four hours elapsed from the time of lifting the litter till the setting it down in his own house, so far into the bush had he wandered. It is needless to mention how the Maroons were rewarded, farther than that it was much beyond their expectation.

The land among the mountains is extremely fertile, and the negroes well know it. It is uncleared, and probably in many places unallocated. In the opinion of many well informed planters, and long residenters in the colony, this very circumstance furnishes strong reasons and unanswerable objections against any general scheme for setting the slaves at liberty, in their present uninformed and partially-civilized state. They maintain, and many people think not without good grounds, that the certain consequence which would result from such a measure would be that great numbers of them, and those especially of the very worst class of negroes would seek asylums in the bush, and there, lead a life of almost complete idleness, subsisting upon the provisions they would raise, which very little labour would effect. And thus, in place of improving in the arts of civilization, they would retrograde from what they are at present, until they became equally savage with their forefathers; and it is probable, nay it is pretty certain, that they would become troublesome marauding neighbours to the more stationary inhabitants in the open country. In all probability, the mountains would become receptacles for bands of banditti, and from our experience in the late Maroon war, we were fatally taught the difficulty of conquering a handful of blacks when in possession of the ravines, or, as they are called, the cockpits, in these forests. The consequence, they say, would be that everyone who retired into the bush would be lost subjects to the country, for no productive labour farther than to supply the wants of nature could be expected from them. The productive agriculture of the country would receive a severe check, if not a total annihilation, not only from this source, but also from the want of inclination, and the aversion which the blacks would certainly display against labour, if they could by any means possibly avoid it.

Unfortunately there is no occasion to argue upon this topic, or to theorized upon it, for we have the example before our eyes, of the captured negroes who have been colonized at Sierra Leone as free people. Notwithstanding the great expense this country was lavished upon them, aided by the labours of the missionaries, their indolence, whether natural or acquired, has proved too stubborn to be conquered. They, no doubt, labour to raise a small quantity of provisions to support a meager existence, and probably a little more to purchase some rum and as much clothing as will cover their nakedness. This is however, all which can be said to have been accomplished by the humane endeavours of Britain in essaying to excite industry in a colony of free blacks. They will not work for hire even to the government from which they derive all the benefits which they at present enjoy and when they do so, far conquer their indolence as to consent to labour for wages, they continue at it only till they have acquired as much money as will accomplish the object they had in view when they engaged to work.

This is all natural, and there is nothing to occasion wonder why they refuse to labour. It is contrary to their accustomed habits. They have no incentive strong enough to induce them to toil in the same manner as the laboring class of mankind are compelled to do, in climates which are less fertile. Clothing is less necessary to protect them from the effects of the weather than it is in more rigorous latitudes. They have therefore no stimulus to induce them to exert themselves farther than for procuring the bare means of subsistence. And a natural consequence which evidently follows is that till they acquire fictitious wants, they will never become good subjects, whether viewed in the light of improvement or as a means of improving the trade of the mother country. The negroes in the West Indies would naturally act in the same manner as the free negroes in Sierra Leone. Industry will vanish and whenever compulsory labour ceases, the exertions of the blacks will cease at the same time; and after such an event, very little benefit indeed can be expected to accrue from these colonies. This view of the matter is the most favourable one, which will assuredly follow if anything like a general manumission should be adopted though probably far worse consequences might ensue, ending in the ruin and destruction of the already free people in these islands.

Like the inhabitants of Sierra Leone, the West Indians would have no idea of raising crops for export: and all the instruction which man could give them, would not have the effect to make them look so far forward as to see the advantage of such industry or if they did see it the benefits are too far distant or of too slender a nature to induce them to abandon their sluggish habits, and to force their native indolence into exertion. With the Sierra Leonites, the consequence has been that they have not nor is there the slightest probability that they ever will in any shape remunerate the mother country for the expense they have occasioned it, not to say a word of the immense destruction of white human life which this free black colony has been the mans of occasioning. And the prospect of the children of such parents adopting industrious habits with such an example always before their eyes, is surely not very bright. Is it not more probable, and more consonant to nature, that their children, for several generations to come, will be as slothful and averse to labour as their parents?

It would be fortunate for human nature if this was merely hypothetical reasoning. But the truth of it has been too fully illustrated by facts nearer our own doors, than that blessed colony of Sierra Leone has ever exhibited. Truth, however will abide the test, notwithstanding whatever may be advanced on the subject by those who have, through motives of humanity, taken the side of the blacks. They are not aware, it is to be presumed, of their real character, otherwise they would never have once thought that it could be expedient with safety to loosen their bondage, situated as they are at present in regard to their state of civilization and to their moral and intellectual qualities. Judging from an abstract principle, slavery, or forced labour from any portion of mankind, is a cruel, and apparently an unnatural system; but since such a state of society actually exists, mere theoretical reasoning is not surely sufficient of itself to effect a beneficial alteration, however unjust, or however much at variance such a state may be with the principles of Englishmen. Like every other state of society, it is involved in a complication of difficulties which require much caution in tampering with, and much consideration must be bestowed before slavery can safely and effectually be abolished. If good was certain to arise from an instantaneous manumission, let it at once be done. But if the intelligence of mankind has been derived from the experience of ages and our own experience of revolutions has surely been ample enough, those must evidently be in an error of a dangerous nature; who would interfere with any long established system, unless they proceed upon the best, and what time has proved to be an advisable mode of procedure, preparatory to abolishing long standing laws, whether they are against or in favour of nature. Man is not a machine to be managed like a piece of clock work or a steam engine. He has too many passions and prejudices to submit to be treated like a piece of inert matter. His passions must be set at rest, and his prejudices must be silenced before he can safely be made to submit to laws, even though framed for his own advantage. Abolish slavery, and there instantly would be turned loose upon society a host of idle immoral and profligate wretches who would instantly become pests of society, and who would be a perpetual burden upon the community till they ceased to exist.

That they would be of no use, as has already been said in an agricultural point of view, we have not to learn. The Maroons, the descendants of the slaves who belonged to the Spaniards, and who retired to the mountains when their proprietors were driven out of the island, are nearly in the same progress towards industrious habits as their forefathers were. They have been a free people for some generations, yet they have not improved either as an intellectual race or as industrious subjects. In fact, they have not made the slightest advances towards improvement. Their forefathers were semi-barbarous when the English obtained possession of the country, and their descendants are the same at this moment, if they are not really something worse. They are altogether ignorant of the modes of civilized life, although they have had a civilized race always in view. Their manners and their mode of life are those of an indolent people, and yet they have had before their eyes for nearly two centuries the comforts of civilized life, and the improvements of civilized men. Of these views of life, they have taken no advantage; they are still the same slothful, improvident race which they were when in a state of slavery. Their situation for improvement has been favourable to them, but they have derived no benefit from it. They have made no attempt to better their condition by means of agriculture or any other species of industry or labour. Their traffic has never extended beyond that of dealing in a little smoke-dried pork, and catching runaway negroes. They are altogether an indolent race, and seem not to be possessed of the slightest desire of altering their condition. These are a race of free blacks, and what grounds of probability have we to walk upon that the present negroes, if loosened from their bondage, would act otherwise than them. None have we; but if the monitor, experience, has any weight in fixing opinions, it surely may be concluded that the moment the slaves procure their freedom, unimproved as they are, it may reasonably be expected they will act in a similar manner -- for whoever saw a free black laboring in the field as a field negro? But judge of the condition of the great bulk of mankind, whether in slavery or in freedom, merely in an abstract point of view, and the chances are twenty to one that the theoretical conclusion drawn from any abstract principle for improving their situation will prove fallacious and hurtful to those whom it was intended to benefit.

It is a curious and remarkable circumstance, but not the less true, that the Maroons, by means of cow-horns, can call anyone of their company by name, and also can carry on a degree of correspondence at a very considerable distance with this rude and simple instrument, by diversifying the blasts to such a wonderful degree, as if related would be deemed incredible by most of mankind.

CHAPTER XIV

A dinner was given in Singleton Hall to welcome the return to the island of Mr. Broadcote, a gentleman who had long resided in the country, but whose avocations had compelled him to leave it for a few years. During his absence, he had visited India, and resided for some time in Java, but had now returned to the island to attend to his property therein. At this dinner there were five or six elderly planters, all considerable proprietors, whose intimacy with Mr. Broadcote had been of long standing, and his reception, upon again coming among them, was cordial in the extreme.

This gentleman had universally been considered by his acquaintances as one of their brightest stars, and was looked upon as a person able and willing to defend their interests, if required, against what they called the visionary schemes of the saints or the abolition party -- a class of men to whom many of the planters bear the most decided antipathy. Mr. Broadcote had been an industrious opposer of the abolition of slavery, and at the time was not sparing of gall towards those who were his opponents, whom he at that period considered in the light of seeking the destruction the colonies; but when removed from the scene, where every circumstance relative to the subject of the abolition was viewed with the jaundiced eye of hatred, as interfering with his daily occupation and imaginary present interest, his opinions become less local than they had formerly been. In the course of his travels he had come into contact with intelligent gentlemen, who had seen many parts of the world, and whose mode of thinking from the observations made on various countries, were very different from what he had entertained as correct notions of man when in the midst of a large slave population. His former opinions were first staggered, and the reflections upon what he heard and saw in the mode of raising colonial produce in Bengal and in Java, by means of free labour, dispelled the illusion of the necessity of slavery, and forced conviction on his mind that it was inexpedient, even in an economical point of view.

That he could have forsaken the side of the West Indians, the company never entertained an idea of the possibility. Had a stranger told them so, he would undoubtedly have been disbelieved. But the cloth was no sooner removed, and the ladies had retired than they learned his changed sentiments; for the usual obloquy bestowed on the party denominated saints, naturally formed the subject of the discourse; when to the surprise of the gentlemen assembled, Mr. Broadcote interrupted them by saying:

"Gentlemen, when I was formerly among you, I thought and spoke on the subject of negroes as you do. My opinion then was that all was right and that any scheme for bettering their condition, farther than what we ourselves had done, was visionary. But since then I have visited some of the intra-tropical countries of the east. I have there seen our staple productions, sugar, coffee, and cotton, grown and manufactured by free men, and from your own complaints, you have admitted that you cannot compete with these eastern growers. I have observed this very mode of the consequences of which you complain, and as the best years of my life have been spent in this island, it is the home most dear to me of any in the world, and it is only natural that I should wish the prosperity of it above that of all others. You will excuse me, there, when I dissent from my former opinions, for experience has since taught me that then I labored under an erroneous impression. What I may advance therefore, is not for the purpose of raising popular clamour against us, but is offered solely with an intention of ameliorating the condition of our servants, of ourselves, and of all connected with the West Indies. And as what I have to say is among ourselves, I hope you will listen to me with attention, for you must well know that I am no fanatic, nor do I speak from theory, but from actual observation and practice, and if I should disagree in opinion with you, believe me it is not through any disrespect which I have towards you, but from my great desire for the improvement, the happiness, and the wealth of this and our other colonies in the West."

Although the gentlemen were astonished at this introduction, and were visibly displeased that they could not now consider him as one of their party, they nevertheless pledged themselves to attentive hearers to the novel schemes which he had formed among the Indians of the East.

"To begin then," commenced Mr. Broadcote, "we will take a general view of forced labour -- of the state of our servants in this colony -- of a mode for ameliorating their condition, and gradually rendering them free, and also for improving the agriculture of these islands -- subjects unquestionably of the utmost importance; and which the present state of the improvement of mankind loudly calls for, not only in a humane, but also in an economic point of view.

"That the forced labour of man, or slavery, has had a being in the world time immemorial, we all know. The most ancient chronicles establish that it existed, and was not, even at these periods, of recent origin. The conclusion following from which is, that slavery has in itself nothing unnatural, and probably therefore it may never be entirely rooted out from among mankind. But the slavery of the ancients and the villainage of the Europeans, though bad enough was of a nature quite different from West Indian slavery. It may be said to have been a state of comparative happiness when viewed in contrast with the condition of our negroes in the West Indies, and in many points it resembles the system of slavery, as it has been, and at present exists, in Asia. Slaves in ancient times were the property of their owners, the same as they are in these modern days, and the ancients probably in many instances had more legal power over them than is allowed to the West Indians. It was not however executed in the same manner as ours is, nor did it shew itself in the same forbidding aspect which it wears to us. Slaves in those olden times had some resemblance in the servants employed in European countries. They were not wrought in gangs, nor had they drivers to use the whip as a stimulus to labour, for from what we can learn, they wrought much in the same way as free people among ourselves without the perpetual smacking and coercion of the whip.

"In an economical point of view too, Gentlemen, slavery, or the compulsory labour of man has been condemned by many intelligent people among ourselves, as being more expensive even than free labour. That this is the case at present is certain if the truth is credited for sugar produced by the labour of free people in Bengal and Java, can be sold in London cheaper than that grown in the West Indies. Unquestionably, therefore, there must be something wrong in our system, even admitting the fact that our slaves are better fed and clothed and lodged than the laboring Bengallees or Javanese, and God forbid that I should ever wish to see them fed as these free labourers are. It is quite evident then that if we could get quit of slavery without any violent commotion, and could induce negroes to labour for hire after giving them freedom -- a sugar estate could be managed cheaper than at this moment and probably we might be enabled to undersell the Eastern growers.

"In regard to the food, clothing, and lodging of the negroes I have no fault to find; for as far as my knowledge extends, I presume in this respect they are fully as comfortable as the peasantry of most countries in Europe, and with respect to medicine they are better. Their vegetable food probably may be a little too watery, wherefore they should be desired to grow more corn, if they did, which I am convinced we would hear fewer complaints of their decrease.

"As to their punishment however, by the orders of the owner or overseer, or even by the drivers, although I am perfectly aware that much exaggeration on this subject is propagated at home, some better mode might surely be adopted than the present one in use. That a different mode of managing free servants and forced ones is necessary, no man can consistently dispute. That punishment is sometimes requisite, nay, absolutely indispensable to make forced servants labour cannot be doubted. On every estate where the people are numerous, we know that there are always to be found several who are so badly inclined that it is nearly impossible to get any good out of them, even with the whip; nay, I am aware that some of these are so hardened, that no dread of punishment will deter them from committing peculations, which in England would infallibly bring them to the gallows.

"This is what must be expected; for it would be contrary to nature if such a class did not exist in all large communities; and here I do not forget that instead of taking away their lives they only receive thirty-nine lashes -- a punishment in the most of instances no ways adequate to their crimes. Idleness and vice become traits so established in such characters that they disregard the punishments which they receive upon the estates, and become callous in wickedness to such a degree that so soon as they recover their liberty, so soon again do they commit new thefts, and those generally from the houses or provision grounds of their fellow negroes. In short, I am quite aware that the greatest number of the negroes who have inflicted upon them the highest punishment which an overseer can adjudge, is for the crime of stealing and that for the most part from the negro houses. We see, therefore, that many of the punishments of which the abolitionists so grievously complain, are inflicted for the protection of the negroes themselves, and very often on their own complaints; although at the same time we must admit that similar punishments are frequently imposed on those who desert their work for any length of time, and also occasionally for trivial offences, when the overseer is unfeeling, or may bear umbrage towards them. The great body of the negroes, however, upon most of the estates where I have had any charge, never received any punishment, but on the contrary, occasionally at their request were granted the indulgence of liberty for a day or two, or even longer, to visit their friends or relations, who might reside on estates at some distance.

"But I admit, that those who were ill disposed and idly inclined, no terror nor reward could tend to reform, not even the dernier resort of sending them to the workhouse, there to receive punishment and afterwards to be wrought in chains for a fixed period, had the effect of reclaiming them. In general, it is too true they returned from this place of punishment more hardened than before they were sent thither. In fact, I have not the vestige of a doubt in my own mind, that the workhouses in this island, and the bridewells in Britain, are neither more nor less than schools, fitted up by the public, where the wicked who are sent to them learn to become worse. That they have such a tendency seems to appear for nine out of ten who have received any education in these schools are found to have become completely abandoned and regardless ever after. And yet, though these truths are notorious, not only here but in the old country, the mania for such establishments has never been stronger than what it is at the present period, and I have no doubt whatever that thefts will increase in the exact proportion with the number of these expensive habitations, in which the novice in crime becomes the hardened offender.

"But since there are people in all the countries of the world who are pests of society, in those, therefore, where slavery is permitted, it would be truly wonderful if such disturbers were not to be found. Punishments, then, all must admit, are indispensable in every country, for I am not yet aware of any philanthropist having discovered a mode of curing or preventing evil by means of rewards or forgiveness. In this island, flogging is bad recourse to for ninety- nine thefts out of a hundred which are committed; and with the exception of house-breaking in the large towns, and the robbing of white people, (and those offences are not numerous) few of them are brought before the criminal tribunals, whereas, for the same crime, death in Britain is often inflicted. Here, therefore, punishments in general are more lenient than they are in England, and until some new mode is adopted to prevent crimes, some punishment everyone must confess will always be necessary to protect the well-disposed portion of society. Then, since it must be admitted that no people can be managed without a criminal code of laws, it cannot be expected that untutored negroes will not require such. But the question resolves itself, not into the absolute necessity of punishments, but into another that is, who shall be the judge? Shall we, according to our present usage allow the owner or the overseer acting for him to dispense justice without being under any control if he exceeds not the statutory quantum of lashes? Are we allowable in doing this, when we consider what persons compose the great majority of overseers? When we reflect that many for them are from the lowest ranks of life -- that of these, numbers are very illiterate, and besides, the greater part of them, as the word virtue in Europe means, are far from being good moral characters. Among this body of course, the great majority are worthy persons, who would spurn at the idea of ill-using a slave unjustly or from motives of revenge; but does not the effect of nearly unlimited power, and the frequency of beholding punishments inflicted, tend to harden the heart and make it callous to the feelings of the blacks? If it has this effect on the best of white man, what effect must it have upon the ignorant, the unfeeling, and the depraved who are and from the nature of things often must be entrusted with the management of estates. These men may be good planters, and produce good crops and give satisfaction to their employers; but are they fit subjects to possess the arbitrary power of inflicting punishments on the negroes under their charge when they think proper? I say they are not; for human nature is so constituted that though there are many men who with safety might be entrusted with this power and would use it beneficially, it is cruelty to commit the same means to the hands of others who may and do make an improper use of it; and of course it would never answer to entrust one overseer and refuse another. Besides, without a moment's consideration, I would at once abolish the flogging of women; for to my certain knowledge it has prevented the increase of the negroes to a greater degree than the law of Pharaoh for the destruction of the first born of the males of the Israelites would have effected, if it had been carried into execution.

"Surely in this enlightened era of the world, it is possible to frame a code of laws which might be adopted beneficial for the whole population, especially for the slaves, without any bad effects ensuing therefrom. At all events, a change certainly might be devised which would take away the present arbitrary power possessed by the overseers, a power too little defined to be entrusted to any one man in a civilized government. At the Cape of Good Hope a mode is adopted, placing the authority in the magistrate, who has power to examine into the complaint whether at the instance of the master or at the instance of the slave, and who decides according to what he considers justice and in conformity to the law on the subject a mode seemingly preferable to the one which we follow. It is done in a very summary manner and as I have heard no complaints regarding this law, I presume it has the desired effect, and works well; even although the Cape colonists are in general very far distant from any magistrate, while, comparatively speaking, in Jamaica, magistrates are so near every estate that at the Cape they would be said to be at hand, and more could easily be appointed if more were deemed necessary. This would tend in a great measure to ensure the negroes from unmerited punishment; besides, the idea of appearing before a magistrate, and his adjudging the punishment to be inflicted would be more solemn and would occasion a dread in the negroes much more than the same punishment awarded and inflicted by the overseer; for it is indisputable that no persons entertain the same fear for a man who is continually in their presence, that they do for one whom they know to be clothed with authority, and whom they seldom see. The probability therefore is that if this system was introduced, it would require but a short period before it would prove satisfactory to all parties, and be found far superior to the present mode where experience shews that punishments have a very slender effect. A trial of a similar description for a short time at least might be made and if practice should prove it not to answer the desired end, the present system might again be resorted to."

Mr. Singleton interrupted him with saying, "I most decidedly disagree in opinion with any such scheme and hold it to be altogether chimerical because on very few estates I am confident would it answer the intention required in consequence of its compelling the white people to leave their properties to state their complaints against the slaves and answer those brought against the slaves, and answer those brought against themselves by the negroes to the neglect of work. Unless the power remain vested in the white people and especially in the hands of the overseer, I uphold that the negroes could never be managed with advantage to the owners, for they would lose all dread of their masters, and would actually be less under control than the free servants at home, who are held under restraint by knowing that if they disobey or conduct themselves improperly they will instantly be turned out of their employment. The negroes have no such fears. Besides, is it not very probable that the overseers would become so averse to making complaints, which you must know would be distressingly numerous and very vexatious rather than put themselves to so much trouble that they would pass faults over in silence or at most with empty threats. These threats, for a short time, might do very well; but they would soon lose their effect, the dread of them would gradually die away and with it all control over the people would cease. What would be the consequence of this? Would not the property be left uncultivated? Would not ruin stare the white proprietor in the face? Would not the overseer be dismissed and the cause of his dismissal being reported, would he not find it impossible or certainly no easy matter to procure another situation? This, Gentlemen, is no hypothetical reasoning, for that it is impossible to procure work from our people if the power of flogging is withdrawn from the overseer, every gentleman present I should think will admit. I myself have no hesitation in saying that without the whip entrusted to the manager, we may as well manumit them at once, for any good we shall afterwards derive from them; and I only wish that the most respectable and violent of the abolitionists would proceed to this island, and take charge of estates for no longer a space than six weeks, when I could forfeit my estate that before the expiry of that short period, they would have recourse to the faithful cow-skin to procure the necessary labour -- that, if they managed the estates to any good purpose whatever, they would order slaves to be flogged, and otherwise punished, so very necessary, nay absolutely indispensable, would they find this coercion requisite in the government of the poor abused blacks, whom they esteem so dearly, and pity so feelingly."

Mr. Broadcote resumed, "Since there is such an outcry about ameliorating the condition of the negro, and that the people in Britain expect the colonists will aid them in their endeavours, I think that my plan relative to this matter is about as feasible as any I have yet seen or heard, and it has in its favour this great advantage the test of experience to recommend, which you must admit is no small consideration. But waving this point, I conceive that the first steps necessary towards any effectual amelioration of the negroes and the colonists themselves, must originate in the introduction of an improved system of agriculture. Our present system is deplorably bad. Science has not introduced any of her refinements or improvements into the West Indian agriculture, and although the world has been advancing progressively, and Britain more especially in this most necessary of all the useful sciences, the West Indians have remained stationary, or nearly so. No bright or enterprising genius has arisen among us, to improve our agriculture or our agricultural instruments. It is with very few exceptions indeed the same today as when the colonies were first settled, and for our knowledge in this respect, we have not been beholden to civilized times or to European instruction. It would seem, however, that we have borrowed our admirable system, not from a race superior or equal to ourselves, for that would not have been West Indian like, but we have borrowed it from those objects of our contempt, and of our dread -- the negroes. But in whatever manner it was obtained, no person can look at the negroes at work, but must confess that the mode of our agriculture is of the most unscientific, and the least improved description that it is possible for the mind of man to conceive. Though the exertions of all mankind had been united for the express purpose of framing the least possible perfect plan of cultivation, they could not have framed a more rude and less improved system than that of the existing state of agriculture in the West Indies. It bespeaks its rude origin in the most forcible of all manners, and believe me, gentlemen, a blush has been forced even from me, when I have been asked by Indians of the East, what were the implements of agriculture which we made use of in the West. I felt actually ashamed in the relation, and I am certain that he shrewd eastern natives did not attach much credit to my statement, when I answered that he hand-hoe, the bill-hook, and the basket for carrying canes and manure, were the whole implements there deemed necessary for working a sugar plantation. They stared with amazement and doubt, apparently believing it impossible, that the same men who were so superior to them in their countries, should be so far inferior to them in their own; indeed I am convinced that they did not attached credit to may statement. They very naturally doubted, and the world will scarcely believe that while such visible improvements in agriculture have been effecting in Britain to her great advantage that her sons in the west should have for about two centuries made no effectual improvement in their mode of cultivation. But it is the truth and has resulted from the self-exaltation of us West Indians, who considering ourselves as the most intelligent and most superior class of human beings within the tropics disdain to seek any examples from people who were not of ourselves. It would have been derogatory to our reputation to take advantage of the improvements effected in other countries, and it would have been acting altogether out of character for us, who are more able to give than to receive instruction to have sought if from the poor, benighted, superstitious creatures in the east, although they have had the sugar cane amongst them time immemorial. No, this would been so great a degradation of character, that everyone would have despised the person who even thought of looking for such information; and had it been obtained, and proposed to have been adopted, it would have been spurned at as unworthy of acceptation, coming as it did from a despicable source; for we all know he cannot be a true West Indian, who will acknowledge that it is possible for anything good or expedient for us or our servants, to originate anywhere else than amongst ourselves. What, ye would exclaim, shall we shiite Christians in the west be indebted to pagan Hindoos, to heathen Javanese, or to idolatrous Chinese, for the best mode of growing sugar? No, we might as soon receive instructions from the negroes whom we flog, or from the brown men reared among ourselves. Oh, never! Mutter it not in the Gulf of Mexico! Breathe it not in the Bay of Bengal! Whisper it not in the Straits of Sunda! that the bread eaters in the west took instructions from the rice eaters in the east, lest the yellow men should rejoice. No, never let it be said that the eaters of bread were taught by the example of the eaters of rice. It would be debasement with a vengeance which could never be borne. It would be an acknowledgement that he bread eaters were not a race superior to the eaters of rice, and who amongst us would sign such a confession.

"We have therefore contentedly continued following the routine first established, without concerning ourselves whether it was good or bad, satisfied that if any other superior mode could exist it would have been introduced as a matter of course long ago, for surely we are not wiser than our forefathers.

"Following up such maxims, we in our wisdom have concluded it to be impossible that our system of agriculture is capable of improvement and that whoever avers the contrary is a visionary or a saint, terms very nearly synonymous in our West Indian language.

"But from the observations which I have made on the manner in which cultivation is carried on in the east, I am convinced that the agriculture of these colonies is susceptible of improvement. The great error which the West Indians have fallen into in this respect is that of saving the labour of cattle at the expense of the labour of men. In all civilized countries, men have been relieved of labour by means of the brute creation and have prospered in the same ratio; but here the brute creation are saved by the labour of the former. In short, there is too little brute work and too much of the work which they might perform has in consequence been laid on man, a system of management which surely ought to be reserved, more especially as the labour of beasts is cheaper than that of men even than that of our black servants. Such a system might be easily effected by the introduction of the plough into general use throughout the colonies and some other instruments of agriculture applicable to the particular cultures of these climates in place of persevering in the system of scratching the earth with the hoe -- a system which it is wonderful common sense has not long ago pointed out to us as radically wrong.

"In Java, a rude plough is employed in turning up the ground previous to planting, whereas we may have the most superior kind known; and it is only the prejudice of the white people of these colonies, which prevents its universal adoption. It is no objection that the soil of these islands is too stiff or too stoney or too mountainous; for in almost every country there are soils equally stiff, stoney, and hilly, which are yearly ploughed; and I have no doubt that nine- tenths of the whole of this island which is under cultivation, could be tilled by the plough. I could refer it to any man living that there is no soil so stiff but that the plough could turn it up if it was possible to be turned up by the hand-hoe. That trials of the plough have been made for a great number of years by past we all know, and we also know that these trials everywhere partially succeeded, and good crops followed as the consequence, and had not the prejudices of the whites (and there are no people more prejudiced than the majority of the overseers, and others connected with estates) run so strongly against the plough, as an innovation which they did not wish, because it occasioned them more trouble than the usual routine of the day, I am convinced that it would have been now generally in place of partially employed. However, if any inference can be drawn from the experiments which have been already made, they are favourable to its introduction. In my opinion, was it once generally introduced, and the system persevered in for a few years, till the whole people became completely acquainted with its use, it would never again be abandoned.

"It would have the salutary effect of reducing the labour of the people and enabling them to devote more attention not only to the canes but also to the cultivation of provisions for themselves and food for the cattle upon the estates. In very point of view it would be beneficial. The island might, without interfering with the raising of the staple commodities, grow provisions in such abundance, as might preclude the necessity at any time of requiring foreign supplies; for it is well known, Jamaica is far more than adequate to support itself, though it contained ten inhabitants for everyone which is now in the island.

"To a feeling mind, the alleviating the labour of our servants would be inducement enough; but alas, neither this, not even when coupled with evident benefit, will teach us what is proper for our own interest, so prejudiced are we against innovations of any kind. Slow are we in making improvements, and when any are pointed out to us, the hue and cry is instantly raised that our enemies, the abolitionists, intend to ruin us when in fact they can have no interest in doing so. We should remember that they have already conferred a great benefit on us by preventing the introduction of more negroes, of whom we have already more than we require if we adopted the proper mode of cultivation in employing them.

"When we have not the abolitionists to contend with, we then complain of the East Indians for being allowed to come into the market with sugar and coffee, for the reason that they undersell us even though laboring under the disadvantages of a high freight and heavier insurance. We are always complaining and especially in times of peace; but we always continue astrue West Indians, for we never once imagine that we are in the wrong, consequently we impute no blame to ourselves for being unable to produce sugar equally cheap with the people in the east. No, we do not think it is possible that any blame is attachable to us, or to our mode of culture, for that would not be characteristic -- the unfortunate soil must be in fault, but not us. And the government, whom we are continually afraid of interfering with our beloved system of management, have sided with us so far as to grant in our favour a protecting duty. The East Indians say, most unjustly, because being subjects of the same government, they cannot see the justice of protecting one set of subjects at the expense of another set.

"The East Indians, however, are not satisfied with their exclusion. Many attempts will therefore be made by them to get into the market on the same terms with ourselves. It will resolve into a contest between the free growers of sugar and the growers by forced services, and which side humanity will take is pretty evident. In the contest, it will not avail us to plead that although we have compelled our slaves to apply their whole strength to the hoe, yet we are unable to produce sugar equally cheap with the free men and their ploughs, and that therefore government must protect us or we will be ruined. We may add, that it is no fault in, nor of the virtue in the cow-skin which has been lavishly applied; but that the fault lies in the East Indian government allowing free men to grow sugar by means of ploughs, whereas the growing of sugar ought only to be tolerated by Britain in the West Indies, and cultivated solely by black men, the property of their owners, with the hand-hoe, do not with ploughs, for that would diminish the labour of the negroes, and make them saucy.

"The East Indians will not stand to this mode of arguing, but will contend that in strict justice, the subjects of one state should be placed on an equality, with regard to the productions of similar climates. They will maintain that no blame is attachable to them, because the West Indians have introduced, and persevered in a system of saving their people to produce sugar at a dearer rate than what they could do, by reversing their system. That it is unfair that they should be kept out of the market because they have introduced the labour of cattle to perform the work and save the expense of men. They will also maintain that if any protecting duty should be tolerated, it should be in favour of them who are more than three times farther distant from the market and in consequence must bring their commodity at a greater expense than the West Indians. We may argue that their superiority does not consist in their mode of culture, which we may call an improper one, but in the superior nature of their soil, and their climate. But on the other hand, they will insist on the fact, that in all countries there is a diversity of soils -- that in general, the soil of the West Indies is equal to theirs -- that the brains are more regular in the west than in the east -- that the advantage which the east has over the west lies in the knowledge acquired by the people of the proper mode of culture, and from their industry in irrigating the lands, where practical, in adverse seasons. Thus they will contend, that if the West Indians are to be preferred, it will act towards them as a bounty for their ignorance in consequence of their manner of culture continuing nearly the same, as if cattle were not brought under the subjection of man, and for their want of knowledge, in not availing themselves of the benefits arising from irrigation, which in many places requiring it could easily be effected. In short, the protecting duty will operate as a premium to indolence and the want of ingenuity, to the discouragement of the ingenious and industrious labourer, and his superior mode of management.

"Such a state of things, my good friend, cannot exist forever. It is in consonance with nature that similar productions will find their level and it ought to be so. Our argument that Britain is bound to buy her sugar from us, dearer than what she can be supplied with elsewhere, because we purchase our necessaries from her, while the sugar growers in the East take little of anything, may induce the British government and that justly to continue its protection to us for a time; but it is so much at variance with the natural order of traffic that it cannot last always. Our other argument on which formerly we used to lay so much stress, viz. open our ports to the world, and withdraw the protecting duty and we shall be satisfied. Such has been done, but the protecting duty remains, otherwise absolute ruin would soon have stared us in the face. Take away the protecting duty, and shortly afterwards there will be no farther occasion for the outcry about granting freedom to the negroes. In the course of a very few years their owners would abandon both them and their lands, as losing speculations, and the slaves would be virtually freed.

"But notwithstanding, we live in an age of experiment and innovation; we may presume that if the agriculturalists in Britain are to have a protecting duty in their favour, we in the West, as forming part of their agricultural establishment are surely in justice equally entitled the same with the home agriculturalists. We are not unreasonable in expecting such a boon; for if we are unable to sell equally cheap with the Spaniards in Cuba and the Brazilians in America, this unquestionably must be attributed to the latter still continuing the slave traffic. With us our negroes are numbered and from there being no new supply obtainable over and above their natural increase, their value has been enhanced to more than double the price at which planters can procure slaves in Havannah and the Brazils. The planters of these latter countries are thereby enabled to raise crops cheaper than it is possible for us to do, and from their supply from Africa remaining steady, they are less regardless about their people, and force more work out of them than our interest will allow us to exact, leaving humanity altogether out of the question; for although the foreign planters should annually lose numbers of their slaves by over-working and under-feeding, their place can easily be supplied at a cheap rate; whereas, when we lose any of ours, a vacancy ensues which cannot be filled up. From the nature of man therefore, the presumption must be that self-interest will induce us to be as careful of the health of our people as their situation will admit and probably no laws which it is possible to frame will prove so effectual for the comfort of the negroes as the natural concern which an owner has for his own property will effect. But since Britain has placed us in peculiar circumstances, unfavourable to cheap productions in comparison with other colonial powers not so circumscribed, it would be the height of injustice if she failed to afford us her protection.

"Presuming therefore that our protecting duty remains, what benefit will open ports avail us, if sugar and coffee can be bought cheaper in India, and sold cheaper in Europe and in the United States, than the price at which we can produce them; who, knowing this, would be foolish enough to enter our ports to buy our produce, and thereby make a losing voyage? Open ports will never benefit the agriculturalists of this colony to any degree worth mentioning; as, if I am allowed to give an opinion. A few years will prove, for we shall never be able to compete with the East Indians while our miserable system of agriculture remains. It must be altered prejudice, (or the ignorance of vulgar minds) must give way to an improving mode, where the brute creation shall have their fair quota of labour, aided and assisted by man; then shall we derive the proper benefit to which we are entitled from the superior works and machinery which we have erected, for preparing our crops for the market, and which are as much improved beyond those of the East as their agriculture is preferable to ours. Then this colony will flourish. Amelioration to every state would be the result. The black man would be happy, and numbers of them could easily be spared from the labour of the sugar field to follow other pursuits, such as the raising of many minor articles which are not attended to and other useful employments which would benefit the colony.

"But should prejudice carry the day and the old and ignorant routine of cultivation be persevered in, behold what will be the inevitable consequences and that at no very distant day. Remember that the East Indies is not in the same state in which it was forty or fifty years ago. Since then, owing to the wish and politic management of the governors who have been entrusted with our empire in the East, and the vast numbers of superior men who have gone thither, the ideas of the people have been enlarging, and their extended agriculture, especially in our particular staple has been great, considering the short period of time which has elapsed, and they are still extending it. They are already, as we feelingly know, enabled to undersell us, one year with another, and I am certain that although the West Indians ceased the culture of sugar, Europe in the course of half a century would be supplied in equal abundance and at a less costly price than Britain is a this moment. But it is very probable that it would not be nearly so regularly supplied as it is at present from the West, consequently the fluctuations in price to the British as well as to the European consumer would on the whole render East India sugar sometimes higher in price than what the West India ever amounts to.

"We complain even now of the markets being glutted (unless immediately after ad crops) with our staples, and this complaint, I am sorry to say is very often too well founded. We may imply from this, with the protecting duty in our favour, that we raise more of these commodities than what retain can herself consume; there export markets to other states in Europe are necessary towards the consumption of them. But if the East Indians can already sell their sugar and coffee cheaper than we can, it is only natural to think that these states who were formerly our customers will become the customers of the East Indian. If they can purchase their commodities cheaper at present, what may be expected in the course of three or four years hence, when the measures pursued by the Dutch in the Eastern Archipelago come into full operation. Perhaps you are not aware, that within these six or seven years since these islands were restored to a scheme which if it ultimately succeeds as it has every prospect of doing, will drive us from the coffee market altogether except in the British dominions. The Dutch have adopted their old oppressive system of forced services and forced deliveries, and in consequence have issued orders (and these orders must and have been obeyed) for each native landholder, and the generality of their portions are small to plant and rear a certain number of coffee trees upon each of their properties, and when they are in a state of bearing, to deliver the produce to the Dutch East India Company, at prices fixed by the Company. This is what is termed forced services and forced deliveries, and is a term well known, and forcibly understood in the Dutch islands. Such a mode of procuring coffee in the Company has been carried into execution, especially in some parts of Java, and in the whole portion of the Celebes which acknowledges the Dutch sway; and I have been told that the same measures have been introduced into several of the other islands.

"In Java too, the cultivation of sugar has for some years bypassed engrossed the particular attention of the resident whites, both Dutch and English, and much capital has been embarked in the culture and preparation of it. The people employed are chiefly Chinese, who individually confine themselves to particular branches whereby each becomes more expert in his own particular department than if he were to engage in performing the whole of the operations. That such a consequence follows is self-evident; for it can never by expected that our servants who are servants of all work, can be able to compete, in any of the branches, with those who make only one or two of them their particular study. This division of labour has the effect also of causing competition and emulation in the several departments for the expert and the industrious will be more sure of finding employment than the idle and the ignorant. We have already felt and we now feel the consequences of this system to be that we cannot compete in any free market with these people and if we are not willfully blind, we must perceive that the people in the East will in a very short time as they have partially done already, exclude us from every market, Britain excepted. We may insist for the continuation of the protecting duty and as I have already said, it is probable that boon will be conceded to us; but it is far from being equally probable that a bounty on our staples of exportation, farther than the drawback, will be granted even allowing that we had the confidence to apply for any such. And in addition to our present known sources of fear, there is a rumour afloat that the Portuguese since the secession of the Brazils from them, intend, or have already begun to found, larger sugar establishments on the west coast of Africa, south of the line, which, if followed up with spirit and perseverance will tend to increase the glut of the tropical products too much of which it would seem are already grown.

"Believe me, gentlemen, the time has arrived when an ameliorating system is requisite for our own preservation. We have learned that forced labour, circumstanced as we are, is not so cheap as free, especially in the mode adopted by us. We complain every season when we have abundant crops, that our produce has become a drug in the market, that we are undersold by the Indians of the East, and the Brazilians of America; yet, is it not wonderful that we have not sought for a natural remedy? It is true that we are as heavily taxed as the people in the old country, if not actually more so; but that alone surely cannot be the cause why we are so much undersold, and we have never once thought that there might be a defect in our mode of agriculture or in our mode of management. We have not bestowed a single opinion on the subject of altering or improving the state of culture or the condition of our people. Like true born West Indians, we have believed it impossible to devise a superior system to that of the daily unscientific routine which passes before our eyes. It has never entered into our imaginations that with our combined knowledge, like our manufacturers at home, we might be enabled to undersell every other nation, in whatever quarter of the world they might be situated. No -- we have not extended our ideas so far, for we have not even considered that the agriculture of all countries prospers only in proportion as the manual labour on the soil is performed by cattle, and that a country must be poor indeed, where the earth is tilled solely by the bodily strength of men. We have not thought in this scientific manner but in place of doing so, we have complained to the mother country of our distresses, without having ever thought of attempting anything in the shape of ameliorating our condition. Something, however, of this sort must be had recourse to or our distresses will continue increasing and the sooner that an improved mode of culture is commenced, the earlier will a gradual return of better days visit these islands. There is nothing of theory in the system, no additional expense of cattle will be requisite, and in the course of a very few years, the people will become habituated to the mode of culture, and it will be found generally to work well. Let a fair trial be made, and let it be persevered in without regarding the outcries or prejudice, or of interested jobbers, or of ignorant overseers, and prosperity will yet crown these islands with wealth and happiness; but should it be neglected, these colonies will imperceptibly descend into the abyss of poverty, and be remembered only for what they were once."

During this lengthened harangue, it must not be imagined that I passed without opposition from the gentlemen present; but as their arguments were founded chiefly on the point of the long period that the existing state of things had continued, I was not deemed necessary to insert them, especially as this statement has been already extended far beyond what was anticipated at its commencement.

After a considerable lapse of time, occasioned by altercation, Mr. Broadcote resumed speaking -- "We will now if you please, take a glance at the moral and religious condition of our servants, and observe whether some mode might not be introduced into practice, capable of improving their state of happiness and welfare towards rendering them more useful members of society. The great body of our servants we will admit, have been in these colonies for two or three generations, and are people susceptible of cultivation in any employment in which it has been thought proper to instruct them. But it is well known that very many of them are immoral, sunk in vice, and ignorant of religion; but are these faults attributable to them or to us? If I may answer the question, I would say we have indeed caused great numbers of them to be baptized; but we have gone no farther; we have been satisfied that we have then done enough. We have made them Christians by ceremony, and they require no more. We have not perceived any necessity for teaching them the principles of our faith, nor have we discovered that good would accrue to them from their being instructed in reading. Though in Britain, instruction has had the effect of improving the morals and the conduct of the people, yet everything in our opinion is so diametrically different in the colonies, that is tendency would operate to make them worse. Thus we argue, and have done so for nearly two centuries, and the consequence which has resulted from these principles is that we have not taken a singles step towards the moral and religious improvement of our servants. We have made no trials of the efficacy of having instructed people in place of the most ignorant. We found them barbarians, and we have allowed them to remain without endeavouring to instill into their minds any instruction. We are Christians, and acknowledge that our black people have souls to be saved, and yet we have offered them no assistance towards their salvation. In this respect we have acted more inhumanly than the Mahomedans, for they teach their negro slaves their religion, and when they are initiated, they make them free. So far the religion of Mahomet has the ascendency over that of the Christians, for we are not so generous.

"We Christians, however, have found a less complex mode of improving the minds of our people, and furnishing them with instruction; I mean the virtue contained in the cow-skin. In our hands it is a monitor which is listened to, and its efficacious lessons properly understood and obeyed. But I am inclined to think that we would have superior servants if we had recourse to the same means which have succeeded everywhere else, by educating and instructing them. I am aware that some humane gentlemen have at various times made the attempt to instruct their own slaves, but it was nearly impossible that such partial attempts could have succeeded in opposition to the general ridicule of the country. Their failure, therefore, proves nothing, and I am convinced that if a proper plan was devised success would gradually follow and the minds, habits, and industry of the people would be improved, which would have the tendency to render less watching necessary than they at present require. It is one of these facts which has proved itself that the mass of any people are industrious and well behaved in the same ratio with their instruction, and I cannot figure to myself a reason why our labourers would not likewise be improved. And I have heard it said that in some of the islands to windward, the teaching of the missionaries has had a very beneficial tendency in the improvement of the negroes in these colonies, as a proof of which they are become infinitely better than what they previously were.

"To instruct the people would require a very trifling expense, commencing with the children; for I fear it would be a very arduous task indeed to teach those who are already grown. The book-keepers upon the properties might instruct one or two of the most promising youths under them, and these might afterwards devote some of their spare hours in the evening, to teaching the young negroes. By which means, schoolmasters from among themselves would very soon be reared and a very small remuneration in addition to the teachers' ordinary supplies from the estate, would be a sufficient inducement for this trouble; and the white people on the properties could occasionally examine how the scholars were getting forward. That great numbers of them would be glad to be furnished with instruction, I have no doubt; for I recollect when I was a young man, and then a book-keeper, a young mulattoe boy, whose freedom was to be purchased when he attained a certain age, applied to me, along with his mother to teach him to read. This I did, and to write also and at the time I felt extremely sorry that I was under the necessity of refusing some of the other slave boys who solicited for a similar favour, but situated as I was, I did not wish to get into variance with the overseer, whose thoughts of the slave character were not so liberal as they might have been. For Pastors, decent plain men, of good common sense, who would interest themselves in improving the people among whom they labored, would prove more adapted to effect the end than men proud of academic laurels. Such men would prevail where I am afraid high-paid clergymen would fail while the expense of remunerating them would be very small, though sufficient to support them in a state of comfort and respectability. The good sense of such Pastors would teach them to refrain from, and to discountenance everyone who should venture to maintain opinions prejudicial to the legal powers of the owners over their servants, or in any other way to render them discontented with their lot, or to repine at the state in which they were born.

"Under such a course of instructions, continued for a few years, a very perceptible improvement among the people would become visible and the rising generation would be rendered capable of enjoying their freedom in a rational manner when procured. If freedom at present was granted to them, I have no hesitation in affirming as my fixed opinion, that the great mass of them would make an improper use of it from their want of economy, their slothful propensities, and other causes incidental to a life of slavery. In short, from the circumstance of their being always under strict control, and from finding everything provided for them or else ordered and forced to provide for themselves, they are somewhat of the nature of children; and it is probable great numbers of them would take no care of making nature of children; and it is probable great numbers of them would take no care of making any provision for themselves or their families if such control was withdrawn till they were actually in a state of starvation when it would be too late to remedy the evil.

"Even now, however, I consider it only an act of justice and as a step which would tend to raise the negro in his own estimation and thus far improve his character towards enabling him to enjoy freedom when obtained that his evidence should be allowed in case where white persons are concerned, leaving to the Magistrates or to the Jury to consider from the nature of the evidence, the credit which ought to be given to such testimony. It would tend most materially to prevent any unfeeling manager or owner from improperly using them. White people, knowing such to be the law, would be more cautious in using their authority than we know many are now in the practice of doing. It would also have the tendency to place our characters in a fairer light to our countrymen at home, than what they imagine to be really the case. It would wipe off that stain imputed to us, which, I trust, is only imaginary, that there are numbers among us who maltreat the people under them through motives of ill-will or anger, without fear of any bad consequences resulting to them, from their studiously using the precaution of allowing no legal evidence to be present. If the testimony of negroes was once admitted and no complaints were made by them, it would effectually prove that all such surmises ascribed to us were groundless and it would convince the world that our characters and principles are actually as mild and humane as those of our brethren at home.

"In some minds, an alarming dread from admitting their evidence to be received has been anticipated as the result of such a law. From this source, however, I cannot perceive that there is any just cause for the slightest fear. We have no hesitation in taking their evidence in cases where they themselves alone are concerned, and upon the faith of its truth, we have caused many to suffer death. In such instances, if we have firmly and faithfully relied upon the truth of their testimony, we have acted uprightly in enforcing the laws; but if we maintain that no reliance can be placed on their oaths, how are we to answer for causing death to be inflicted, if we really entertain such an opinion? Surely the life of a black man in his own estimation, is equally valuable to him, as the life or any white man can be to himself, and assuredly we cannot both maintain and disclaim in the same breath that reliance upon his evidence, in one case, should be admitted, because he would speak the truth, but that, in another, his testimony ought to be rejected, because he would then swear falsely. This, however, is the principle upon which we act towards the enslaved; but by no principles of sound reasoning can we be allowed to approbate and reprobate in the same moment. We must unquestionably be wrong in one of the principles upon which our law is founded, for it does not seem consonant to human nature that a witness will uniformly swear right, where the life of a man of his own colour is in question, and uniformly contrary to his oath, when the life, or a more minor punishment of a white person forms the subject of trial. In my opinion, the evidence of the blacks might be received with the same reliance on the verity of it in the one case equally with the other, and I cannot foresee the slightest evil effect which it is possible to have on the people at large in the colonies, unless it may be on those who use the authority intrusted to them in an improper manner, and such persons surely are no proper objects of pity. I would at once concede this point to them, to those of them at least who are Christians, and admit their testimony as fully, to all intents and purposes, as that of the whites, reserving to the court, however, the power of considering what weight (from the peculiar circumstances of the case, or from the particular manner in which any enslaved person emitted his evidence) ought to be given to such testimony. I do not apprehend, that any bad consequences can possible ensue from an alteration of the law to this effect to any person who uses the authority vested in him as he should do, and if any person takes an improper advantage of his situation to the hurt of his people, the sooner he is brought to condign punishment, the better.

"In chalking out a scheme for the manumission of our labourers, much difficulty presents itself. Though many of the people at home desire the termination of slavery by declaring the whole slave population instantly free, it would be attended, in all probability with such fatal and destructive results that no set of men professing to be a actuated by principles of common sense, can ever listen to such a proposal, even for a moment. Besides, to such a declaration would be a most egregious act of oppression and cruelty to numbers of the slaves themselves. It would amount to an order to cast upon the wide world the aged, the infirm, the sick, and the orphan, and all who were unable to support themselves. After they were declared free, they could have no claim to the protection of the estate on which they were born, and toiled out the strength of their days, except humanity; and judging from our experience of human nature, how few would be found who would listen to the admonitions of compassion in comparison with the many who would turn a deaf ear to the pitiful and imploring cries of helpless poverty. All these, and there must be many thousands in such a situation, would have neither house nor home, but would be utterly destitute; and surely, it cannot be the wish of those whose professions are breathed in a strain of love towards the whole human race, to desire to add to the misery of those already bent down with the weight of years, the infirm in health, or the unprotected orphan. And yet this would be one of the effects of a general abolition and who among all those who cry for an abolition, would wish for such an effect?

"Another, and a favourite mode of terminating forced labour and which has already been adopted and is at present in operation in the state of New York, in St. Helena, and Ceylon, that all who are born after a certain date are born free is evidently in one respect founded on sound and humane principles. But it ought to be remembered that in these places, slavery was never very extensive, and therefore though it may effectually answer the proposed end, in such, it does not follow that it will be equally beneficial in large slave states, such as this island. It would here be attended with this consequence -- and a grievous one it would be -- as it would furnish a frightful source of discontent to the negroes -- that if all were to be free who were born after a certain first of January, all those who were born in the December preceding, or even throughout the whole of the year, and for the two or three years preceding, if not more, would be dissatisfied. These unquestionably would consider their situation peculiarly hard, as it actually would be, and the numbers of them in this situation would be so very considerable that it is far from being probable they would tamely submit to the unceasing endless routine of a life of slavery, and that in the daily view of the companions of their youth who were enjoying the sweets of a state of freedom -- as state procured through no merit of their own. This reasoning may be considered as merely hypothetical for the experience of time cannot furnish us with any instruction on the peculiar features which the state of society we are contemplating will exhibit, but among a population of several hundred thousand slaves, the view in the distance is not very cheering. It unquestionably would have a speedy effect in abolishing slavery, especially, if another period, say thirty years was to be fixed as its termination. But it seems very doubtful when the moral and intellectual condition of the negroes is considered, whether it would have the tendency to benefit the negroes themselves, or even to make them so happy or comfortable as they are at present. For, from experience, we know, that in too many instances where freedom has been bestowed by owners on favourite slaves, that in place of benefiting themselves or society, they live a life of sloth and idleness, skulking upon the estates where they have relations or acquaintances and in this manner procure a precarious subsistence by becoming a burden on the slave population.

"The plan which I would propose will require time, and during that time the negro character must be improved by the means of education and a general amelioration of their condition. This, however, it is to be hoped will be attended by our own amelioration, and in consequence will be advantageous to us in place of the reverse. I consider the negroes to be our lawful property and any scheme which has not this understanding for its foundation would be very unjust. Neither sophistry nor evasive arguments can overcome this stable principle. The laws of Great Britain, and of our own colonial legislatures sanctioned and approved by the King in Council have ratified and confirmed us in the firm and legal possession of our servants; and unless the British Government usurp the power of declaring that they have a legal authority for taking away private property, contrary to the consent of the owners without remuneration they never can deprive us of our servants or of their issue without a manifest violation of the laws which secure to us our political and private rights. But I am too sensible of the justice and uprightness which sway the minds of our rulers, to suspect, even for a moment, that they will ever endeavor to force our servants from us, without making a fair and equitable remuneration.

"Upon this assumption then I will proceed and propose that there should be no bar in opposition to manumission with the exception of old or infirm slaves, whom I would never consent to manumit without caution, that they should not become a burden upon the community in order to prevent frail sickly people being thrown upon the public by poor or unfeeling owners. With this proviso, therefore, I would recall the present law appointing security to be found in the cases of manumission. Next, I would take off the onus probandi, or the burden of proving that he was free from the negro, or other person claiming freedom; and I would have no more sales for workhouse fees where no claimant appears or when he appears if he does not establish his claim. As the law at present stands in this respect, I consider it a most unjust law, in so far as it lays the burden of proof upon the poorest subject of the realm, to the relief of the most wealthy and which in nine instances out of ten amounts to neither more nor less than what lawyers term proving a negative -- unquestionably a most difficult proof to lead. The law relating to this species of proof I would abolish totally; and though numerous unworthy persons may obtain advantage from it yet, it is a righteous maxim that it is better that one hundred wicked people should scape than that one honest man should suffer. Lastly, I would have a law framed allowing negroes to possess property, (though I never yet heard of an owner's interfering with his slaves property) without the owners, of those acting for them, having liberty to interfere with it in order that our slaves might legally acquire and secure their gains; and, in the same act let a maximum value, according to a scale in which sex, age, colour, and shade, is considered and a legal price fixed at which the slaves or the parents of slaves or any other person may procure their redemption.

"If such measures were adopted, a free population would arise from among those who are now in bondage, but in so imperceptible a manner that in place of weakening the colonies, it would have the tendency to increase their strength, and that exactly in the ration in which respectable slaves procured their manumission, for they would then have some stake in the islands to preserve and therefore, in a powerful degree, would strengthen the militia. It is not to be supposed that any of those persons who relieved themselves from servitude, by means of their own exertions, would do so to lie in a state of idleness. They would be quite otherwise disposed -- they would become industrious labourers, and would betake themselves to such employments as would remunerate them best; and if a less laborious mode of drudgery than the tillage, at present in use, was brought into practice, people for field-work would be easily obtained from among the freemen. The owners, in this view of the subject, would have received just compensation for the loss of their forced services, and each freeman would perform nearly double as much work be entitled to a fair remuneration for their labour; but this would naturally of itself fix the value according to the scarcity or superabundance of such a hands. That freemen would perform more work than forced men, every one of us must be aware from observing the difference in ground which one of our servants, in a given time, cultivates for himself, compared with that which he does, in the same period, for his owner.

"The labour of tradesmen, too, would soon become much cheaper than it is at present. Provisions, in like manner, would suffer a diminution in price. Many small cultures, tending to enrich the colonies, would be raised and the manufacture of coarse articles would infallibly be introduced to the great benefit of the whole population. Industrious habits would gradually be generated among the free and the bond-servant towards the general wealth and happiness of all, for industry and morality are, in a great measure, synonymous. A new era of prosperity would succeed to the present depression, more prosperous than any these colonies have yet beheld; and not only the inhabitants themselves, but the mother country would rap more benefit from these possessions in proportion to the increased wealth of her western subjects than at present she realizes. This is no theoretical assumption for it cannot be denied that a free black, of good character even at this moment, consumes more of the productions of Britain than what most of slaves do, or can do; and in proportion as industrious negroes procure their freedom, they necessarily will increase the demand for British manufacturers.

"To enable the negroes to derive benefit from a maximum being fixed, it would be a very desirable measure if saving banks, as has been proposed were introduced into each parish where the savings not only of them but of the poor free people of colour could be deposited in safety. The tendency of this measure, if rightly understood by the people themselves would have a very satisfactory effect in keeping together the small sums which they might earn, and furnishing them with a stimulus for increasing it. And if a gold and silver coinage, in addition to the copper one lately introduced was struck and put into circulation much good would accrue to the colonists of all colours; for the evil resulting from the want of a circulating medium is nowhere more felt than in this island, where, we well know, rum is in lieu of it, the principal currency in the country, not only in the payment of merchant's and tradesmen's accounts, but also, in too many instances of the salaries of the white servants upon the estates. It is surely an evil which might easily be remedied by the mother country without causing her a farthing of additional expense; if the home Government has, in part to support the troops, &c. which are sent to the island, such a coinage for several years for that purpose might be sent out in place of the present system of selling the Bills drawn upon the Treasury to cover the same expense.

"There are other matters connected with this subject, but to discuss them would be entering into too minute a detail and therefore I will pass them over with saying only a word upon one of them before concluding. It will be argued as it has heretofore been, that the allowing of the negroes to procure their liberty, by purchase, will have the tendency to cause a general system of stealing and robbing amongst them, as the speediest means of obtaining their freedom. I, for one, however, cannot agree to this mode of reasoning, for experience teaches us that people who commit such crimes do so from motives of procuring the gratification of present dissipation and not from any prospective view of happiness, seen only in the distance. A man who can renounce the tempting indulgence of vice immediately in his sight and within his reach, with the means in his possession will seldom be guilty of any crime to procure such means. A man, who can renounce such, will be a virtuous character and will spurn at procuring his liberty by dishonest courses; and the man who will commit crimes will do so from the stronger incentive of procuring immediate gratification regardless of future happiness. This objection therefore I think has no foundation in the nature of man, for vicious or criminal actions are seldom, if ever, had recourse to, for the purpose of attaining a virtuous obje ct.

"One thing which I wish forcibly to impress upon your minds, is that you should effect such ameliorating steps in your own legislature. It would tend to deface the ungracious opinion which great numbers of worth well-disposed men at home entertain of you. It would gradually allay all angry contests between you and would involuntarily force them to view your conduct with more kindly feelings. It would also have an advantage among your own people, in so far as they would know, that all boons in their favour emanated from yourselves; and it would teach them that you were the sole regulating power in the colonies. Without entering into the question, whether the British Government has, or has not the power of legislating for you in internal matters, unconnected with revenue, I have no doubt that the tendency of any such interference derogates from your character in the eyes of the people under you. These people learn that the home Government is interfering. They hear your outcries and complaints of such interference; and as this interference relates to themselves, they naturally conclude that you are unfriendly towards them, while the people in Britain on the contrary are friendly. The effect of this external legislation causes them to view you with an evil eye, and, at the same time, it teaches them to believe, that the supreme power is not vested in you. It would be advisable for you therefore to adopt the ameliorating system yourselves and thus prevent the British Government from having any inducement to interfere -- and, unquestionably you have superior means of legislating on this subject to those who are at a distance, of whom few have any personal knowledge of the country and as few any practical idea of the people for whom they are legislating. External legislation may be hurtful to the prosperity of the colonists whereas similar means, if framed and enacted by yourselves, may prove beneficial. Besides, you would thereby shew the British people that you are equally humanely disposed with themselves, and that the happiness and well-being of your servants are objects as near to your hearts as to theirs."

CHAPTER XV

CHRISTMAS, which is always in this island, a season of mirth and festivity in the diurnal course of the year, had come round. And in the morning of that eventful day, Singleton Hall presented a scent of gaiety, noisy hilarity, and confusion, arising from the negroes belonging to the estate crowding in to make their annual visit to their massa and missa, and to compliment them in their own way with their best wishes that they might live long, and see many happy returns of the season. This is indeed to them a period of exceeding joy. On that day, the following one, and the first of the New Year, the bonds of slavery are loosened, and to them they are truly holidays of freedom, happiness, and merriment. Attired in their best and gayest apparel, they seemed all life and glee, joyous gladness sparkled in their dark coloured eyes and smiled on their black and glossy countenances, for at length, the happy period and arrived and they were on the eve often enjoying the pleasures and merriment which they had long anticipated and which had engrossed the conversation of the younger part of the community for at least the preceding two months. Mrs. and Mr. Singleton welcomed the happy visitors in a manner which pleased them and although to them it was an agreeable sight to see so many of their people with faces free from care and lighted up with all the joys of happiness and delight, the continuation of such a scene, though enlivened with the honest and simple civilities of the negroes, at length became tedious and troublesome. To get rid of them, they therefore had recourse to sending them to the overseer to receive their Christmas present. This present consisted of a quantity of salted fish, some rum, and a little sugar, to each. And it proved an effectual excitement to get quit of their officious, though well-meant and sincere kindness, for in a very short time, they had all disappeared.

It is in the towns, however where the suspension of slavery for this very limited space shews itself in all its glory -- where the bond servants seem as if they electrified with joy so happy do they appear. In consequence, the towns are the polar stars of attraction to the vicinities around them, and as customary, a party of ladies and gentlemen from this neighbourhood was formed to proceed to the town, and behold what amusements were going on to vary the monotonous routine of a country life. The ladies and gentlemen being assembled, the former proceeded in carriages, accompanied by the gentlemen on horseback with their negro attendants on mules, equally eager with their massas and missas to behold the shew.

The day was truly so delightful a one, even in this the most pleasant and agreeable season of the Jamaica year, that had any of the party been sad, it would have enlivened them; cheerfulness, however, was the order of the day, and in this happy state they reached the town. All was bustle and confusion on the streets, and it seemed to be momentarily increasing, from the numerous strangers, who were to be seen pouring into the place to participate in the amusements of the day, for happily from the good disposition and contentment of the negroes, it was not deemed necessary to proclaim martial law, thereby affording everyone time and opportunity to enjoy the sight of the negro diversions usual on this occasion.

The day was not far advanced before the procession of the negroes commenced. It consisted of at least one hundred of both sexes, and was preceded by a very tolerable band of sable musicians. The dress of the female negroes, besides being elegant and neat, was in general tastefully put on, and many of them displayed a handsome assortment of jewelry, apparently of considerably value. Scarcely any of that shewy, window-curtain, unfast-coloured dress, which is sent in such abundance from this country, was to be seen. The great body of men were genteelly attired, and like the ladies, not wanting in jewelry of their own kinds, displaying collar pins, chains, and seals. The appearance of a number of blacks, of both sexes, thus habited, shewed better than would be generally conceived. The glossy deep black, when one is a little accustomed to it, looks well -- the features and forms of numbers of the females were more European than African and among the males numerous figures were to be observed, that for manly strength and proportions might be placed in comparison with the great portion of white people. It is the large feet of the negro race which seem the most disproportionate part about them, and what adds to the deformity is that the heel projects so far backwards that in many instances their legs appear to be planted nearly in the middle of their feet, in place of being situated near the extremity.

At this time, the negroes were only proceeding for their honorary sable dignities for these people during their short span of freedom, must have their king, and queen, and court, to rule over them, and mimic, so far as they are able a kingly state of society. With these dignitaries at their head, and their court in the rear, followed by all the town negroes who could procure suitable dresses for the occasion, the music soon afterwards announced their approach. It was a gayer sight than the former, the flags being unfurled, and the cavalcade very considerably increased in numbers. The appearance of the dignitaries was more splendid than that of their court, and the court more so than that of their followers. Black Massa Snowball had received the suffrages of his fellow slaves in the town, and had been elected king; and Miss Strutt's black Luna was chosen queen. King Snowball was elegantly dressed in a scarlet coat, with epaulets, and his hat was grandly decorated with the towering ostrich feathers which his mistress had that morning withdrawn from her bonnet, wherewithal to grace his head, and make him look more noble. She had besides given him, to display on his breast, the loan of the diamond pin, which her love had bestowed on her the day of their marriage. Snowball likewise possessed, on this occasion, his Massa's gold watch and chain, to which was appended a very large bunch of seals; and to make him appear still more grand, his Massa, who was Senior Warden of the Lodge in the parish clothed him with his sash of office. No person can be surprised, therefore, that thus attired, Snowball felt proud of himself, and was elevated by his high situation and sounding appellation of King, in supporting which character he looked and strutted as if he had been one in reality, and probably had a more royal and dignified appearance than any of their sable majesties of Africa.

To decorate Miss Strutt's black Luna had been the work of a considerable period, and one of no small anxiety to her Misses, knowing, as she did, that Luna, on this occasion was to support the royal dignity of consort to King Snowball. Miss Strutt found no difficulty in procuring an elegant dress for Queen Luna, but she was afraid she possessed too few jewels to decorate the royal personage, and at the same time to display for the gratification of her own vanity and to shew that she was possessed jewels in abundance to enable Luna to act with honour and dignity on such a momentous occasion. She, however, was aware that it was altogether unnecessary to solicit the loan of any from the ladies in the town or in the immediate neighbourhood, as it would prove a fruitless task, seeing that they would require them to be displayed on their own girls. But determined not to be thought wanting in the essential paraphernalia of jewels, she made a trip to the country on the pretense of paying a visit to some of her acquaintances, but for the express purpose of borrowing ornaments, and actually brought with her the greater part of the trinkets of two or three of her companions. Missa Luna, in consequence, as might be expected, shewed off in grand style to the regret of many a fair lady, who envied the possession, though not the possessor of so many precious ornaments. The head of black Luna was decorated with a profusion of ostrich feathers, fastened with combs studded with pearls, and gold bodkins, set with precious stones, while her feet were confined in embroidered shoes. Round her neck were several strings of coral beads, and a gold chain, with a locket attached, forming a contrast with the bottom of her gown, which was thickly set with a profusion of spangles; but her gown was studiously allowed to shew that her legs were encircled with silk stockings. She wore an elegant brooch set with stones upon her bosom; and at her side dangled her Massa's gold watch with an additional quantity of appendages. Coral bracelets, with gold clasps, encircled her arms, while her fingers were overloaded with rings, some of them set with diamonds. Missa Luna was no doubt elated with her exalted pre-eminence; to a spectator she certainly seemed more proud of displaying the dress and jewels which the vanity of her mistress had taken this opportunity of exhibiting, than of the royal dignity which she was supporting.

Marley was informed there was a competition between this Miss Strutt, with Miss Pindar, and another acquaintance, a Miss Goodly, relative to who would shew on their girls the greatest profusion of jewels on these slave gala days. This is a species of competition which yearly occurs among the native born ladies of the island, and accordingly the girls display not only finery, but trinkets of considerable value. Miss Pindar's Quasheba, and Miss Goodly's Clementina, were ladies of honour to Queen Luna this year; they were both elegantly attired, and their jewels were equally ostentatiously exhibited with those which Luna displayed. But Miss Strutt had been more diligent than her competitors, in so far as she had borrowed from more of her acquaintance than they had; and as each of these three ladies had expected to have their favourite slave better and more richly dressed than the others, Miss Strutt formed a subject of envy to those who proved unsuccessful, and female vanity being wounded, a dryness of a long continuance was the consequence.

With the intervention of slight intervals, the procession of the negroes, according to their graduation of ranks, preceded by their bank of music, passed through the principal streets of the town. The greatest number of them were skipping and dancing along in place of walking and kept singing the following lines of the Woodpecker in chorus, which, from its universal use, seemed to be their favourite:

I new by de moke dat so gracefully cull'd,
Abode de geen emus dat a cottey was nee;
And I said if dere's peace to be foun in dis wold,
A ha't dat is umle mi tope for it hee.
Ebry leap was at est, and I ha'd not a soun,
But de Woodpecka tppin do ollow beet tee.
Ebry leap, &c.

In this manner the continued marching through the principal streets, till the shades of evening set in, when they proceeded to some house, appropriated for the purpose, to fatigue themselves more, by spending the night in dancing, or as it is termed, attending a negro ball at which no white person is allowed to be present.

The diversions on the ensuing day were exactly similar, and in the same manner did they close, but throughout the day, numbers of the field negroes from the country flocked into the town to enjoy the festivities of the season, and feast their eyes with the sports exhibiting. If the dress of the town's peoples negroes bespoke the vanity of their owners, the dress of those from the country shewed that their proprietors were not actuated by any such motives, the generality of them being far from agreeably clothed. But, notwithstanding, here and there were to be seen groups of them severally accompanied with their favourite gumba and a fife. Though the sound of the gumba is anything but pleasant, the principal actors drew numbers of spectators around it. A principal attraction was John Canoe and his wife, each accoutered in a manner truly fantastical; according as their fancy, of what was most ridiculous, directed them. But John very prudently carried a small imitation of a canoe, into which he and his wife with their attendants, expected the donations of onlookers to be deposited. To ensure such more effectually, John and his wife, (who, by the way was of the male sex, metamorphosed into the appearance of a gigantic female only by the whimsical dress) danced without intermission often wheeling violently round for a great number to times and all the while singing, or in more correct language roaring, an unintelligible jargon in true stentorian voices. Their performance was truly hideous; and had that fabled parsonage, Melancholy, been present, even he would have forgot his griefs and his sorrows, and joined the laughing spectators.

John Canoe and his lady with their favourite gumba were of true African extraction and their mode of acting seemed well adapted to please a race who are not over fastidious in their amusements such as a rude or savage people, who take delight in witnessing the most violent efforts to exertion of body and voice, aided by the means of ludicrous grimace fantastical unnatural decoration. Accordingly, John appeared to reap some benefit from the exertions of himself and his associate; and owing to their earnest desire of affording amusement, few white people failed in passing to drop something into the canoe, which rendered them not the least happy of all those who were enjoying Christmas.

When the next day was ushered in, the formerly happy population returned to their state of bondage, exhausted and fatigued with their over dissipation of the preceding forty-eight hours anticipating the pleasure, however, which awaited their transitory space of liberty on the first day of the year.

New-year-day soon arrived. The negroes spent the day in the manner already related, but as it was given out that something grand was to be exhibited in the evening, the town was more crowded with strangers from the country eager to behold with what display of taste the town negroes would finish the evening of their annual freedom. During the day they erected a large temporary wooden framed building in the centre of the market place, which, as soon as it became dark, was highly illuminated in the front with party coloured lamps, arranged in various figures, and there also were exhibited a few tolerably well executed transparencies. It seemed, in the eyes of the negroes, as well as of the native whites, who had never been out of the island, the ne plus ultra of the wonderfully grand and beautiful. And to those who had beheld such spectacles elsewhere, it was much better than they could have expected from the negroes, considering that few of them could have had an opportunity of seeing any such display out of the country. Had it been their invention which furnished the design, it would be a convincing evidence of the mental and ingenious power of the blacks being infinitely superior than what many whites would wish them to be considered possessed of, but as rumour reported, the honour of the plan was not theirs, but formed by the whites and the browns, though executed by the black carpenters.

The rejoicings concluded in public with a display of fireworks, consisting of wheels, rockets, suns, stars, and others of the same description, which are prepared by the fire-work makers. The whole went off well, and after this grand display, the negroes, as usual finished their annual term of liberty, with a ball.

It is almost unnecessary to say, that the expenses of these amusements are contributed by the opulent among the white and brown population -- the negroes contributing very little among themselves, but their own exertions and labour, which, as has been seen, they esteem as the very acme of pleasure.

In the country, the negroes spend this period attired in their best clothes, in visiting upon the neighbouring estates, and in receiving the visits of their relations and acquaintances from a distance, the evenings uniformly terminating in balls, for of concerts they seem to have no idea, much less the requisite knowledge to derive any degree of pleasure from such a source. Throughout this time, they seem happy, and though fatigued with the dissipation and exertion attendant on such scenes, they returned to their work, many of them apparently well pleased after having satiated themselves with such a round of enjoyment, more pleasing always in the anticipation than in the reality.

While the sports of Christmas were engaging the attention of almost all classes, a nephew of Mr. Singleton's arrived from England, who had been absent rather more than ten years. He was about twenty years of age, and quite the dandy; he was received with great pleasure by the family and their attendants. When he was forwarded to England, for the benefit of his education, his father was alive, but he died about five years after his departure, upon which Mr. Singleton was nominated his executor and guardian to his children. Knowing the predilection which his brother entertained relative to education, he continued the plan which he was aware he had adopted, and sent his nephew to Cambridge for improvement. The estate called Sweet Home, which the young man's father had left him, was a small one, but adequately sufficient to maintain him in a state of independence throughout life, besides affording a comfortable annuity to his sister, who was the only other surviving branch of the family. Mr. Singleton's niece was younger than her brother and had lived with a maternal aunt in a distant part of the island ever since her father's death without once having visited Singleton Hall in the course of that period. The young gentleman was a well formed and a good enough looking youth but altogether so conceited and affected as to the scarcely bearable. Singleton immediately perceived this foible, and his countenance distinctly portrayed the feelings of his mind so much so that everyone except the stranger could not help observing that he did not attach much value to the accomplishments of which his nephew was unsparingly vain. He congratulated himself, however that time would cure him of such foolish foibles, and that as he advanced in years and experience, he might become a very good planter, and a worthy and respected man in his neighbourhood.

Though he received checks, apparently hurtful to his vanity, they were only of momentary duration, for the effects of them generally vanished with the blush which the occasioned. As an instance, he had not been in Singleton Hall many hours, though he had been with the family several days while residing in the parish town, and his return had scarcely been welcomed by slaves on the property to the most of whom he had been well known when a boy, when he observed one of the cook wenches carrying a large bunch of plantains. Desirous to shew that he had forgotten everything which he had ever seen in the island before he left it, he accosted her with a question, to know what was the name of the fruit she was carrying. The old wench was amazed that he had forgotten the very food upon which he had chiefly fed for the half of his life, but having answered him, she entered the house, bawling, so as that she might be heard by all, "that Massa Edward did not know what plantains were." The laugh was thus so effectually tuned against the dandy, that he made no other similar attempts in the house of shewing his excellent breeding and superior education by pretending ignorance.

The estate, which belonged to Mr. Edward, was under the charge of an overseer, who had held the situation upwards of twenty years, and it was the wish expressed by Mr. Singleton on his death bed, that he should be allowed to retain the management of working it as long as he was inclined to do so. For this reason, the present Mr. Singleton did not wish to exclude him and besides, he thought it would be more beneficial for his nephew to learn something of a planter's life amongst strange negroes, who could not have the same attachment to him as those belonging to himself. Upon this consideration and that he might not remain idle, he gave him the charge of a small estate, in the vicinity of Singleton Hall named Capua, which was under his management as attorny , intending, however, that he himself should take the chief direction of it, till his nephew acquired the requisite knowledge. The property had upon it between sixty and seventy negroes with a single book-keeper, a raw country Scotch boy; but the driver was a steady elderly man, a thorough master of all duties required upon an estate and was likewise well beloved by the people over whom he swayed the whip.

The management of this plantation seemed to give Mr. Edward much pleasure for barring ill-timed affectation; he appeared good natured and humanely disposed. At this over-prevailing foible, his friends and acquaintances smiled, esteeming it as one which continual employment would soon eradicate. But he had not been long in his situation before it became apparent that affectation was not the only failing attributable to him, for it turned out that the pedantry which had actuated him while at college, had not been left behind when he bid its walls adieu. In common conversation it was too often exhibited in a manner much akin to that of a brother cantab who had been placed as a midshipman on the quarter-deck of an East Indiaman, and whole ship for some purpose or other happening to carry a light at her main mast head; he was directed to give orders to have it put out at a certain time in the evening. When the hour came, he sung out to a man on the mast, "Ahoy," -- "Yes, Sir," was the return. "Extinguish the nocturnal illuminator." "Sir?" replied the astonished sailor when he again repeated, "Extinguish the nocturnal illuminator, I say." "There is no such rope in the ship, Sir," exclaimed the tar; the poor fellow never once imagining that a lantern was a nocturnal illuminator. The cantab midshipman with feeling of indignation at thinking the man was quizzing him, immediately went to the lieutenant of the watch who was then coming upon deck with this complaint. It was some time before that officer could even comprehend the nature of it but when he did, he exclaimed, "Oho, is that all" and sung out, "You Sir, aloft, douse the glim there." "Yes, yes, Sir," was the answer, the light almost instantly disappeared. Dressed in authority, Mr. Edward expressed himself frequently in similar far-fetched flowery language, and too often spoke very unintelligibly to his people, especially when he had time to con his words. Notwithstanding, the negroes always promised to do whatever he desired whether they understood him or not; he was in consequence often nettled at them, for not having performed what he ordered, but which they always explained away, by saying, "dey tought massa hab dem to do oder ting."

One evening, in which Marley was in the house, a negro told the newly promoted overseer that the driver was at the door waiting for instructions for the next day's work. Edward accordingly went to him, and in Marley's hearing, spoke to old Quaco this -- "Commence at the base of yonder elevation ascend to the summit shortly after the luminary of day attains the meridian and by the time Phoebus sinks in the western horizon, let an angle parallel with the base of the morning commencement be the conclusion of the day's manual labour." With the exception of the hand being pointed towards the elevation where the work was to be done, the whole lingo was downright Greek to Quaco; but he answered with a bow, "Yes, busha," and the busha retired. Quaco knowing that the book-keeper was within ear shot all the time went and asked him, "What hab busha say?" "I dinna weel ken," was the reply of the book-keeper, "but I'll gang in and leuk at the dictionair." If the first was Greek, this might be said to be real Gaelic to poor Quaco who knew as little of the Scotch dialect as he did of meridians, horizons, angles, and parallels. But remembering that the busha said something about Phoebus, he thought he might want him, and accordingly, he posted to the negro huts in the search and immediately finding Phoebus, Quaco hide him away to the busha. On reaching the steps leading to the door, he sent in one of the house girls who was sitting there enjoying the cool of the evening to tell the overseer that he was waiting with Phoebus, and on Edward's making his appearance, and enquiring what he wanted, Quaco told him, that he had brought Phoebus as desired; but on the overseer disclaiming any such order, Quaco, with a shrug of his shoulders, exclaimed, "Massa, yes massa, you hab talk of Phoebus;" but not recollecting that in his flowery order he had used the name, he ordered them away. The only intelligible part of the language which Quaco understood, arose therefore from the pointing of the hand, and in consequence next morning he commenced work upon the ground which he imagined the busha had directed and fortunately he was right in his conjecture. In plain language the order was a very simple one, being neither more nor less than to clean a small cane piece then in sight which extended over a slightly raised plot of ground.

To Edward Singleton, time was gliding away in the most agreeable manner, scarcely a day passing without his attending some party or other to welcome his return to the island. Among other places, he had been on a visit to Mr. M'Fathom, and had frequently been in company with his daughter. Of her, he spoke to Marley in the most impassioned and flattering terms, nay, he even hinted that he would not be long in gaining her affections, and then he would be both a happy and a rich man. Marley well knowing the high opinion which his vanity prompted him to entertain of himself, conceived that it was as likely that he had been deceived by his own flattering ideas than that he had made any progress in her esteem. He, however, was a dashing blade, his father had been much respected, and he himself was the possessor of an unincumbered coffee mountain, though not by any means a large one. In consequence, he was not a person to be despised, and Marley did not undervalue the advantages which in the present instance, Edward had over him from these considerations; but he dreaded still more the opportunities which he had of enjoying her company.

Though Marley never allowed despondency to overcome his mind in regard to the possibility, nay, the probability that he would eventually regain the possessions of his ancestors; yet, when a competitor sprung up, and that one allowing himself hopes that he might gain the affections of the fair one upon whom his soul doted, he felt sensations not easy to describe. His hopes and expectations of final success in the recovery of his own, and that then he might open his suit with prospects of success were never lulled asleep, though, as yet, he had been unable to detail even to himself the mode which would ultimately lead to a favourable termination. His first scheme, which appeared to him so well laid, had been baffled; and how to obtain access into the house a second time, perplexed him greatly. He had devised in his own mind, numberless contrivances to get admission and attain the possession of the writings of the property which were justly his own, but every design which he could form on minute examination was attended with such insuperable obstacles that he was obliged to abandon them as desperate. Hope, the only reliance which remained to him, was the sole reed upon which he leaned his future fortunes, trusting, that chance would, one day soon lead him into the proper channel for accomplishing his aims. He had still the same difficulties to overcome which presented themselves the moment he first set foot on the soil; although his situation in life was more comfortable than his former one of a book-keeper, he could not perceive that it led him one step nearer the accomplishment of his point. It is true he was in the favour of Mr. Singleton; but that was all, and he was afraid that if he made a formal demand for the recovery of his estates, what assurance had he that that gentleman would back him with pecuniary support. From his knowledge of the ways of man, he was not sanguine enough to attach too much weight to the assistance which might be derived from this quarter or even from Mr. Graceson, his first friend. Besides, from Mr. Singleton's silence, for a length to time back, on the subject of his resemblance to old Mr. Marley, the presumption seemed to be, that he now considered his first impression to have originated from mistake, and that arising solely from the similarity of the name, which occasioned him at the time to thank that he beheld a likeness where none really existed.

From this circumstance alone, Marley felt that he had injured his own cause by seeking this friend, because from his evasion when they first met, and from what took place afterwards, it seemed to him probable, that in the event of his now stating the real fact, Mr. Singleton would be justified in disbelieving him, and, at the same time consider him to be acting the part of an imposter, by taking advantage of the concurrence of names, and the reports relative to such a family which he had learned in the country. That such an unfavourable impression would be the first that would spring up in Mr. Singleton's mind he could not question; and although he was aware that the letters in his possession would soon remove all doubt, he could not bear the idea of suspicion being allowed to have place in his breast even for an instant. Had he the writings of the lands in his custody, he would not hesitate a moment in making the requisite explanation, but without them, he was fearful to disclose to any person living a secret of such vast importance to his welfare. To make such a disclosure seemed to him the same as if he was entrusting another person with his future destiny by placing in his hands the power of proclaiming, by his single fiat, whether he was to be instantly declared a man of wealth, or whether he was to struggle through life in search of a fortune. Marley, therefore, resolved to continue abiding his conduct, till, at least, he should attain the age of majority, an era which was fast approaching.

Notwithstanding, though Marley had, for some time past, no opportunity of seeing Mr. M'Fathom, or of meeting with his daughter, he was tolerably well informed of all their motions, and, in consequence, was nearly equally well acquainted with their proceedings as if he had been an inmate under the same roof -- rumours always furnishing the necessary information, in a community comparatively small, surrounded with such numbers of servants. But, now that a rival had openly appeared to oppose him in his love, Marley felt an inexpressible degree of solicitude, such as none but lovers feel for in every plan of life which his fancy had pictured, she was so interwoven in the sketch that the idea of losing her, tortured his imagination almost to madness. But unknown and friendless, the servant of another, he felt that opposition on his part, circumstances as he apparently stood, if not altogether hopeless bordered so closely on it that the mental pangs occasioned thereby drove him at times almost distracted. Knowing, however that to allow such feelings to gain a preponderance over his reason, was the least effectual way of giving the object of his affection; and unwilling that his mind should sink into a state of apathy, he was determined to exert himself, as far as prudence would admit. He saw that something that behooved to be done, and that quickly to prevent the prize being carried off which flattering hope instilled into his every thought was destined for him. In the meantime, however, as he had no fixed contrivance by which he could recover the eventful papers, which were to accomplish his destiny, he imagined it would not be a bad scheme of generalship to make the experiment on Edward, and, through him, gain access to Miss M'Fathom; and experience the nature of the reception he would receive to satisfy himself whether or not he was forgotten or still favourably remembered. For at this period, she was on a visit to an elderly widow lady of the name of Mrs. Hardy, on Pella Estate, situated not more than two miles distant from Capua.

The design was no sooner imagined than it was put into execution, for having nothing of any importance to detain him on Singleton Hall, he rode over to Capua Buckra House, where he knew the newly-appointed overseer would be disengaged from its being negro-day with his people. Finding him lolling away his time with forming mathematical diagrams, he joined him in a glass of grog; after discoursing of the weather, and the duties which the overseer would have to perform when the mill went about, or the oiling of sugar commenced which was fixed for the beginning of the week following, Marley proposed a ride to Pella, to have a sight of the lady in whose praise the overseer was so loud.

The proposal was no sooner made than assented to the vanity of Edward prompting him to shew off Miss M'Fathom as a paragon of beauty, and a proof of his own finely cultivated taste, in making her the choice of his love. Of course he could never once dream of Marley being a rival, his situation in life casting him so far in the back ground that it would have been madness in his opinion to think of aspiring to the possession of such a fortune, for even he himself was not altogether certain of success with everything in his favour but an equivalent in wealth -- of Marley, therefore he could not reasonably entertain any dread; accordingly, after dinner, they rode to Pella Mansion house. Marley was introduced in form, to Mrs. Hardy, by name which when she heard, she paused for a moment, but instantly recollecting herself, she welcomed him in a frank kindly manner. In like manner he was presented to Miss M'Fathom, Edward having no suspicion that his companion had ever seen her. Upon his introduction to the young lady, a deep blush suffused her cheeks, but it passed unobserved by the others, and she returned Marley's compliments in as formal a manner as if he had really been a stranger, with the exception only of a slight trepidation which was perceptible to him, but to him alone. And although Edward rattled on about the charming state of the weather and of the delightfulness of the climate and country yet Ms. Hardy appeared to be in a reverie, often glancing at Marley, while Miss M'Fathom kept looking at the window as if to observe whether what Edward was praising so highly was consistent with reality.

After a short space however, all were seated in the viranda, and conversation became more social. The Cambridge scholar talked incessantly of England, recapitulating everything new from thence which had come to his knowledge. Ms. Hardy and Miss M'Fathom had been in that country, and they seemed pleased with the intelligence, but Marley could not help observing that Miss M'Fathom frequently smiled at the pedantic manner in which he described the most ordinary occurrences. Mrs. Hardy appeared often not to understand him, but she had too much politeness to let it be known. But when the conversation took a more general turn and the literature of the day formed the topic, the ladies shone far superior to the man of learning whose pleasures in such studies, or rather recreations it seemed, were yet to come. In this department Marley was enabled to join and he felt convinced that the elderly lady was more pleased with this description of literature than what she was with the ancient. The afternoon was passing most agreeably, especially to Marley, who was harmed with the manner and the good sense which Miss M'Fathom constantly displayed, when she spoke; and although he had been overjoyed with her disclosure every time he had previously had the pleasure of being in her company, he never was captivated so much as now. The sweet tones of her voice and the graceful pleasing way in which she expressed herself were quite enchanting. No studied air, or conceited behaviour, could be observed to actuate her conduct her endeavours to please were not formed by rule, but spontaneously proceeded from the gaiety of her heart, guided by sound sense, heightened by the accomplishments of acquired information.

Tea was ordered early because as Mrs. Hardy said, it was not right that Edward should expose himself to the evening dews, till he was more inured to the climate; although born and brought up in the island, he was to be considered and treated as a new comer, till his constitution again gradually suited itself to bear all the vicissitudes of West Indian weather. In consequence of this friendly care, when tea was finished, the two gentleman bade the ladies adieu. Marley receiving from Mrs. Hardy a cordial invitation to visit her early, and to be sure to call whenever he was in that quarter; and, in return, he expressed himself grateful for the favour, and promised never to miss an opportunity of paying his respects to her, which promise he faithfully intended to fulfill, and that ere long.

On the road to Capua, the overseer was ardent in his praises of the fair heiress, and to enable him to express them with proper effect, he had summoned to his aid every term which he had read in the poets of ancient days, and his happiness was no ways damped, because Marley joined him in the same tune. But by the time they reached Capua, the last shades of the departing day faintly glimmered in the west, according to Edward's style, and without entering, Marley bade him good afternoon, and proceeded homeward.

On the path, his thoughts reverted to the scene he had left. He was a stranger to Mrs. Hardy, and he was somewhat surprised that she had never made any enquiry relative to who he was, or where he resided. What she must have thought of him, he could not conjecture. He imagined it would have been natural for her to enquire, though it might have been rather imprudent on the part of Miss M'Fathom, after what had taken place between them. But since she had not, but had given him an invitation to return, even though a general one, he presumed, that she must have suspected that he was in some way connected with the properties allied with his name, for she had been born in the island, and had not been out of it for upwards of thirty years, as he had been previously informed. Whether or not there was any foundation for this supposition, she alone could know; but it had in Marley's eyes the appearance of certainty; so much does hope flatter a youth with proofs light as air, when it has the slightest tendency towards the development of any anxiously desired end. He argued that if she did not entertain some supposition of whom he was, there could not have been the involuntary pause and the ponderings after which to him were visible and which he interpreted to himself in a manner the most favourable.

Of the conduct of Miss M'Fathom, so far as it related to himself, he could hardly form any definite idea. She was affable and courteous to all alike. He had not an opportunity of speaking a single word to her, but what all must have heard; notwithstanding her studied behavior so far as not to proclaim that they had been previously acquainted, she once or twice, in an indirect manner, partly alluded to it, such as by referring to him when recent dates of occurrences took place, and which, from her own knowledge, she knew he must have remembered. But for any other symptoms of recognition none escaped her lips and Marley was rather much on his guard, even inadvertently to claim acquaintanceship where he perceived ignorance of such a subject was desired.

Whether she knew his actual situation in life, or thought he was a book-keeper still, or promoted to be an overseer was beyond his knowledge; but his be observed that she directed as much of her discourse to him as to his companion, or, if there was any difference he imagined the greatest share fell to himself. And form the frequency of her smiling when his friend used his far-fetched terms, and from her making one or two slight efforts to burlesque his language, he did not dread much that he would ever become the happy man, who would call her his own. But by this time he had reached Singleton Hall, and his attention for the time was attracted from such thoughts, to the daily occurrences of common life.

To Marley's regret, he was not furnished with an opportunity of again visiting the young lady while residing on Pella, for he learned two days after his visit that she had that day returned to her father's estate of Equity Hall.

CHAPTER XVI

ABOUT this period, a large detachment of a regiment newly arrived, took up their quarters in the barracks in Marley's neighbourhood, which from their situation, were deemed the most healthy in the island. The gentlemen in the district, with their universally acknowledged hospitality, were desirous to make the residence of the officers as comfortable and agreeable as possible; the consequence was that everyone was eager to have the honour of their company on the earliest day. Entertainments and parties of pleasure were therefore very frequent throughout the parish, to welcome and amuse the new comers. These strangers as may naturally be expected, from the great outcry about slavery which they had heard came to the country with a bias prejudicial to anything moral which they might behold in a slave colony. From the violent and frequently untrue statements which they had heard reiterated again and again, against the mode of treating the blacks, they expected to meet cruel hard-hearted men, callous to every feeling of humanity. Their surprise, therefore, was great (and some of them had candour enough to acknowledge it) when they found so much hospitality and met with men possessing feelings congenial to their own in an island where they expected the reverse.

They also attentively observed the negroes at work on numerous plantations, while passing along the roads, and studiously looked for the misery which they had been taught would meet their eye at every step, confirmed by the groans and lamentations of the people goaded on to labour above their strength by the unmerciful whip. But when the reverse of the expected picture was only to be seen, when the smiling countenances of the blacks, and the merry chorus of the song which they heard chanted, proclaimed happiness; they could hardly believe that they were in a slave country. Their former belief was naturally somewhat staggered by the evidence of their eyes and ears, and they imperceptibly began to imbibe juster and more favourable ideas of the country -- a country in which they remarked that they had not seen a single beggar, though some of them had traversed it nearly from east to west.

At one of these parties, some of the officers strenuously defended the motives of the abolitionists, maintaining that, actuated by humanity, they were eager only for the improvement of the black population, which they asserted would eventually prove advantageous to all concerned in the country, in the same manner as the abolition of the state of villanage effected in England. To this doctrine, however, the planters would not agree contending that villanage gradually and imperceptibly ceased, while the abolitionists are endeavouring to procure he manumission of the negroes, some without allowing any delay and others with somewhat more modesty after a comparatively short space indeed with what will be requisite for fitting them to act a proper part in society, beneficial to themselves, and advantageous to the community. If, said they, humane motives merely actuated the breasts of the abolitionists, they would not be so very vindictive and virulent against us, who are surely entitled to some excuse, if at times we wax a little warm in defending ourselves against the machinations of those who are endeavouring to deprive us and our families of our property lawfully acquired and to reduce us to a state of wretchedness and beggary. It is in vain that some with seeming justice but monstrous absurdity pretend that they do not wish to injure us in a pecuniary manner, but desire that we should be remunerated for the loss of the forced services of our people; for they certainly must be aware that fifty million sterling is not above the actual sum which would compensate the owners of slaves in the British colonial dominions for their loss, even taking the lowest medium of the value of negroes any time within these last ten years. Unquestionably, these declaimers themselves cannot seriously believe that our government with a debt already too burdensome, will shackle itself with such an increase and that solely for the purpose of making a theoretical experiment upon the gratitude and good behavior of a race of uncultivated negroes, born and brought up in a state of slavery and of whom few anticipate or even wish for any change of condition. An experiment too, which we, who are most conversant with the negro character, have all along maintained will prove abortive, and destructive and contrary to what the abolitionists themselves assert. If such a theory should be acted upon, Britain will have reason to lament the loss of the redemption money, and bewail the ruin of the whole of her colonies in the west, sacrificed as a peace offering to a few theorists, in search of popularity and fame at the shrine of the goddess ycleped Philanthropy.

An elderly gentleman seeming desirous to speak a pause ensued when he commenced with saying -- "Those dear friends at home who are so very attentive to the interests of us and of our servants -- who will have us to be monsters of cruelty and tyranny rather than men pretty much like themselves, and having probably as much of the milk of human tenderness in our natures, and as much of Christian charity and compassion in our breasts as they themselves lay claim to without however making such an outcry about it, as that which they judge befits their character -- these friends, whose compassion and pity extends no farther than to those beings who are black, but who cannot spare a spice of sympathy for those who are white, for no other reason which I can conceive, than because black and white are as diametrically opposite as sunshine and darkness -- these friends have exhausted all the topics of abuse, upon a character of us found on a few isolated acts of cruelty such as will happen in all countries alike in the free as well as in the enslaved but which undoubtedly can never form any criterion of the general manners of a people. Acts of cruelty and oppression, on the part of a few, even though true, assuredly cannot criminate the character of a nation or any great body of people. If it did, in what a deplorable condition would the people of England stand in the eyes of foreigners, if the murderers of the Mar and the Williamson families were believed to represent the general character of all Englishmen. Our friends, however, have overlooked this, and have taken a few insolated acts and from them they have unsparingly endeavoured to convince the generous people of Britain that we are all monsters and that this is our general character as proved from these acts, although the newspapers of their own well-governed country might have told them had they wished to be told that in a given period far more individual acts of deliberate cruelty have been perpetrated in their own country than what has been shewn to have been committed in the colonies of quadruple the space. Yet who has the effrontery from these acts to say, that the people in England are cruel? Why, therefore, from similar premises, should a different decision be given against the West Indians? It is surely not in conformity with the spirit of the Christian precept, which directs us to 'Do unto others as we would have others do unto us.'

"But our friends at home after commenting so long and so violently upon a few highly-coloured acts of oppression and cruelty failed to accomplish their end of destroying us peaceable people in the west, because the good sense of the British nation on reflection taught them the fallacy of judging a whole people from the acts of a few individuals. The abolitionists, I consequence, have had recourse to another topic, whereby they are trying to prejudice the people against us. They are strenuously endeavouring to instill into the minds of the people of England, that these settlements have all along proved a heavy burden upon the country, and that it would be better if the whole West India colonies were swallowed up in the ocean, than that they should remain for Britain would then be eased of the heavy load of expense which they annually cost and sugar and coffee would be procured cheaper from other sugar countries. This mode of arguing is the order of the day; but the deceitfulness of it is so apparent that it is not listened to even for a moment by any one conversant with the immense value of these colonies to the United Kingdom.

"If these friends of the blacks would take a retrospective view of what Britain was before she acquired any of these islands, they would then perceive that in the ratio as Britain became possessed of colonies in this quarter of the Globe, she became powerful and wealthy, and the wealth and prosperity of the country has kept pace with the extended agriculture of these islands. To say, then, that these colonies are a burden to the mother country in any degree equal to what they are worthy, is unworthy of notice. View them in every possible light, and they will be found to be integral parts of the British empire and to form part of the agricultural establishment of the kingdom, quite as much as if they were situated in the middle of England. The property of these colonies centers wholly in Englishmen, and the great portion of the profit, or as it may be termed, the rent of the lands annually finds its way to Britain for the support of the proprietors and mortgages resident therein and the wealth which individuals accumulate in the West Indies uniformly finds its way into her bosom. The profits, therefore of these islands benefits the mother country in the same manner as if the colonies were British countries. This, surely, is undeniable, and for those who remain in them they are wholly clothed and partially fed from the mother country. Unquestionably therefore, these settlements are just as beneficial to the parent country as if they joined the mainland of England.

"In another respect they tend to the prosperity of Britain, in so far as they find employment for numbers of British subjects, who might find it difficult to procure a subsistence at home; all the people who come to these islands remain equally profitable customers to the British manufacturers, as if they had remained in their own country, and most of them much more so.

"In an agricultural point of view, Britain reaps much advantage from them. The great portion of the people in these colonies are nearly solely engaged in raising food for Britain and for her northern colonies, in addition to some of them raising a little cotton for their clothing, with some other necessary articles. In this light, they are actually essentially necessary to the very existence of the other country for if the people at home had not us to rely upon for aid towards their support, they would often feel the effects of a scarcity in our products which are now nearly equally indispensable with the use of corn. In short, we stand in a relative situation in respect to the people in Britain, in regard to our peculiar kind of food, as the inhabitants of an upland district, who rear cattle, but raise no corn, do to those who are growers of corn. We are a branch of the agricultural establishment of Britain, employed in raising food and clothing, equally the same as if our possessions formed an inseparable part of England. In addition to this too, our cultures do not interfere with any class of the home agriculturists. So far from it, that we may be considered as manufacturers for Britain, inasmuch as our products form a most important article of trade, in procuring from foreign nations the productions of their countries, which are requisite, if not indispensably necessary to the inhabitants of Britain, nay, even in purchasing corn for the support of its inhabitants.

"Viewed in the light of manufacturers, what an immense benefit must Britain have derived from us, for unquestionably if she had not been possessed of sugar colonies, how could she have purchased from the Northern European States alone, to the extent she has done? Assuredly these countries would not have taken more British manufactures than they did because we had no West India produce to sell them. All the spice which she possibly could have obtained, must there, long ere now have been exported to them in payment.

"The possession of these colonies has to the extent of their produce exported, prevented this; at this moment, the same produce tends to prevent it, for our staple articles will always be in demand by all sates which do not possess sugar countries. We must also therefore be considered as manufacturers, whose productions interfere with no other home manufactures but which as much any other species of manufacture tends to enrich the mother country by enabling her profitably to purchase from other countries.

"But our friends at home maintain that the East Indians would supply them cheaper than we do. Admitting, for the sake of argument, that they could do so to a very small extent, I should wish to learn if Britain would be a gainer or loser by the change? As matters at present stand, we are the best steady foreign market which Britain has for her fish and Ireland for her salted provisions; and we are also good markets for the fish, lumber, and flour, bought from her northern colonies. We, as well as the people in these northern colonies, are wholly clothed with the manufactures of Britain. We, as well as they, are partly fed, and receive all our luxuries from thence and all our machinery utensils and implements, nearly of every description are of the manufacture of Britain. In fact, we are better customers to the manufacturers of the home country than we should be if our whole population lived in the middle counties of England, for them, not only should we have some of our own population manufacturers; but, in that event, we should not be customers to our northern brethren, who are clothed from Britain for their productions to their great loss and consequently to that of Britain. To a certainty it must be admitted that these colonies are immensely beneficial to the mother country; but, on the other hand, mark how the home manufacturers would be benefited by the East India growers of sugar and coffee. They have not taken, neither will they ever take any fish from Britain, for they use none, even though it was practicable to carry it to them. No Irish provisions would they consume. No utensils, nor implements or agriculture, or machinery would they purchase from her; and for clothing and any other article of British manufacture, thee people who grow sugar would take none. Neither would they fight for Britain in a time of need, for their castes exempts them from war.

"Britain might get her sugar from these people who although they are free are worse fed and worse clothed than our negroes, but she would have to pay specie for it, and only specie, for these free Indians will take nothing else; but, then, all those people at home who are employed for the West Indians and their numbers must be great would have to say our 'occupation's gone.' It would be in his manner that Britain would be benefited by the change; but who that is a friend to his country would wish for such a mode of benefiting her by the destruction of her manufacturers even though they could procure sugar a farthing pound cheaper than what they actually pay.

"With regard to revenue, too, these islands are of incalculable benefit to the mother country. The duty collected from our products is immense, and one year with another it can be relied on, and uplifted, with nearly as much certainty as the assessed taxes payable in the country itself. In this respect, Britain derives a vast advantage from our agriculture; for, allowing for the sake of argument, that these colonies were rendered unproductive the revenue which at present accrues from this source, would no longer continue steady, especially so far as concerns the duty collected from rum, for no nation can supply the same spirit equally good with that produced by the British West Indians. A defalcation in the yearly amount of revenue to a degree which it is impossible to calculate, might be the consequence, if the ruin of these colonies should be effected, and probably to such an extent as might derange our finances, to the destruction not only of public credit but to the ruin of thousands.

"In another point of view, the prosperity of the kingdom is vitally connected with the West Indies. A great portion of her shipping is not only directly concerned in this trade, but a considerable portion may, with truth, be said to be indirectly employed in carrying the products of these islands to other countries in Europe. In this respect, the home country reaps an immense income yearly, not only from so many of her people being employed as sailors, but from the stores which they consume, and from the employment which is given to her people at home, in building, furnishing, and probably it is the most our country enjoys. In addition to this too, it is a large nursery for seamen, and from it, it is well known, a considerable portion of our navy is supplied during a time of war.

"The trade to the West Indies also is the most steady and certain of all others which Britain carries on with her colonies. The whole profits, whether outwards or homewards, centre in Britain in the same manner as the trade between England and Scotland. It seems to be infinitely more valuable than the East India trade. In shipping, there is at least three, with safety I might say, five times the amount in value of ships, and numbers of people employed in the West India trade, than there is in the East, and the cargoes may be valued in the same ratio. The value of the two countries to Britain must be estimated in the same manner, and, of course, the preference falls to be bestowed on the West Indies as the most valuable.

"Another objection which the friends of the blacks oppose to these colonies, arises from the expense which they occasion from their being made the seat of war in belligerent times. This objection, however, amounts to nothing in favour of those who use it, but expressly the reverse, in so far as it establishes that foreign nations attach more importance and value to these colonies, than what our friends think they are worth. This very circumstance, however, furnishes strong evidence that her continental neighbours perceive the incalculable advantages which Britain realizes from these possessions; and it is more than probable that they are equally well acquainted with the great benefit which Britain derives from these Settlements with those who wish to detract from their value, for the purpose of effecting a fanciful scheme. But these very detractors, in place of advancing such an objection, ought to be thankful that such occurs, because, if war once commences, surely they would wish that it should be removed from their own doors, for in such an event, fighting must take place somewhere, and it must be assumed as the opinion of the most of people at home, that it is better for them that it should be in the West Indies than in the British Channel.

"View these colonies in whatever light it is possible, and they will be found to be the most valuable settlements which Britain possesses. They are the richest jewels in the British Crown, and from that moment in which they are dissevered from that country, whether by an enemy, or by the blacks themselves, her pre-eminence over the other nations of the globe will gradually decline, till she becomes a second-rate power among the kingdoms of Europe. Long, long may such an era be prevented; and may the wisdom of her councils be shewn to the world by allowing those most conversant with the state of the blacks to be the sole judges of the best mode of improving their condition; and the result, so far as human foresight can perceive, will be the happiness and prosperity of the whole."

CHAPTER XVII

IT has been already mentioned that M. Edward Singleton had a sister who resided with Mrs. Fortrose, her maternal aunt, in a parish considerably to windward of the one where he was situated. Whether his filial affection was not strong, or whether he had only postponed visiting her till some more opportune moment, cannot be known; but his sister finding that he was dilatory in making his appearance; the young lady, accompanied by her aunt, came to see him. The young gentleman happened to be at Singleton Hall when they alighted from their carriage; and when they met, Marley eagerly looked to observe how the feelings of natural affection would operate after such a long separation; but he could perceive no intuitive instinct of kindred to warm their breasts beyond the ordinary routine of friends meeting after a short absence. In fact, however little else could be expected, for a faint recollection was all he remembrance which they had of each other. His sister was a smart looking girl, and Mrs. Fortrose had still the remains of having once been a good looking woman. And the latter was not sparing of her remarks in pointing out to Edward the features which she imagined had a resemblance to his father, and those which she imagined had a resemblance to his father, and those which she seemed to think he had taken from his mother.

After the first hurry of salutations were over, Miss Singleton had so many questions to put to her brother, and so eager was she to have answers, that the negro dialect often appeared; and, although Edward looked as if he was a little hurt when they escaped from her, he did not betray by words the feelings which were in his mind. In general, he answered them plainly enough, but when his language mounted on stilts, she did not understand him, and at once told him so, desiring explanations. This manner of interrogation was gall and wormwood to him, but he endeavoured to overlook it, declaring to his sister that he pitied her, on account of her not being sent to England to learn the fashionable modes, and see what life was. His pity however was cast away for neither she nor her aunt who had been all their days in the island, would admit that life could be different from life in their own country. Nay, the old lady shrewdly maintained that life in Jamaica, must be more pleasant than the life which the people enjoyed in England, because she had all her lifetime remarked that every year numbers flocked into the island, while only a few left if for England, and of those few, the most of them returned again; she presumed, therefore, that Jamaica must be the best of the two countries.

As they would not agree with Edward's opinion, but continued pestering him with questions, he soon began to think they were bores, and wished them home again. But he had sense enough not to let it be perceived, especially when he observed the kind attentions which they received from Mrs. and Mr. Singleton, of the latter of whom he stood in the utmost awe. On farther acquaintance, however, the brother and sister became more attached to each other, and day after day this attachment seemed to increase. He was also the darling of his aunt; and the idea of knowing that a person is beloved, insensibly occasions a return; besides, the lady was possessed of considerable property, with no other near relations but themselves. In a prudential point of view, therefore, he had another reason for keeping as much as possible in her esteem, to effect which, he talked as intelligibly as his former habits would admit.

Of course, visitings and parties were the order of the day when absent friends made their appearance; and Mrs. Fortrose and Miss Singleton, from their being well known in these parts, were considered and treated as such; and which entertainments continued even to satiety.

While these scenes of gaiety were passing, Edward entreated Marley to accompany him to a place, about a dozen of miles distant, to witness some cock battles. It seems that among the other accomplishments which he had acquired in England, he had become partially fond of the sport of cock-fighting, and he was desirous to see some in the island to observe whether the birds were as good stuff, and as true steel as those game ones he had seen in Cambridgeshire. Never having attended a meeting for this purpose in Jamaica, Marley accompanied him, and when they reached the spot, they found numbers of gentlemen cockers assembled, several of whom were known to Singleton, and more to his companion. A grand main, they learned, was to be fought between the cockers of two parishes for a considerable bet, and, it might be said that the whole fancy of three or four parishes were present to behold the issue. Our friends being totally unacquainted with the genealogy of the feathered tribe, which were to display their prowess, would not venture upon hearsay, to take a side, although often solicited, determined to have a personal inspection of their metal before they ventured their money.

The hour of commencement having expired, the party collected, took their stances in the temporary cock-pit erected for the purpose. The handlers made their appearance, and a pair were placed on the ground. They seemed equally good and staunch; by the expiry of five minutes, one of them received a mortal blow, staggered and fell, never to rise more, to the apparent joy of the victor which leaped upon its fallen enemy, and crowed over him. Another, and another pair, followed in succession, till, of twenty-four pairs which were brought into the pit, only one remained the conqueror of the whole.

Early on the day, Edward, who considered himself an excellent cocker, formed his resolution of the side on which he would venture to bet; and as fate would have it, he betted on the losing side. Not being possessed of the coolness and apparent carelessness of an experienced gamester, his losses, which far overbalanced his gains, nettled him to the quick, till he shewed peevish and fretful to all around. He had a slight knowledge of the game before him, but such a slight one as had a much greater tendency to involve him in loss than to insure success. Knowing, however, from his slender experience as the afternoon advanced that he would ultimately lose upon his bets he endeavoured to hedge out, by taking and offering the long odds. Not competently understanding the system, though he had some confused ideas on the subject, he made the attempt, but several of the knowing ones around perceiving his drift took advantage of it, and, from his want of the requisite knowledge, he became deeper and deeper entangled by the very means he had chosen to extricate himself. Observing his scheme so completely baffled, his temper became irritable in the extreme; and, in an especial manner he bore a grudge towards a gentleman, somewhat older than himself, who had gained considerably from him throughout the day, bye even betting and more considerably by the long odds. But what tended to gall him more was that some person with whom he was slightly acquainted, had whispered into his ear that the winning gentleman was a Yankee, and Edward not entertaining the best opinion of Yankee gamesters, at once concluded he had cheated him by some means or other, though he was unable to explain how. Boiling with irritation and vexation for his loss and disappointment a not gaining he was in a state of temper capable of quarrelling with the wind, when the gentleman came to him for a settlement of their bets. This was easily done, and Edward having paid him the demand which appeared to be due, turned round and unable to govern his rage though without intending to be overheard, he said to an acquaintance with an oath, "that that Yankee had taken him in." "What do you say, Sir?" repeated the gentleman. "You appear to have heard," replied Singleton. "Then, Sir, what you say is a damned lie -- I am no Yankee -- neither am I a Crab nor a Creole -- but a true Badian born -- so help me God, and I insist on your explaining the words you uttered." Indignant a the lie being given to him, Edward refused to give any explanation, and the matter terminated for the time, with each saying you will hear from me soon.

Marley was standing beside him during his encounter, and, without a moment's delay, hurried his friend out of the pit. An acquaintance of the other gentlemen did the same to his companion, though by a different door, to prevent any undue exposure, for almost none in the building seemed to have noticed them, every one being eager in settling his own matters, without attending to what others were doing. Although Marley was satisfied that his friend was in the wrong, yet, since the lie direct had been given to him, he was resolved to let him judge what was the mode most befitting for him to act in justification of his character. Neither of them however knew the name of the stranger, nor anything about him, farther than that he seemed to be a gentleman from his appearance, and from his being in fair company. Edward, however, remaining still enraged, was instantly for calling him out, let him be whom he pleased; and he was decidedly anxious that his opponent should instantly meet him, or make recantation of the hateful expression which he had used. From the apparently fiery temperament of his antagonist, Marley was aware that a recantation in these terms would never be made, but his friend would accede to no concessions whatever, without such an apology. And seeing that no better terms could be made with him at the time, he posted away in search of the unknown gentleman, with his message in order that the latter might not think that Edward, to his other faults, added that of cowardice.

The gentleman was soon found, and on the message being imparted to him, he received it in a very cool manner, stating that he was on the eve of dispatching his companion to Marley's friend, with one of a similar purport, and that this friend had full instructions for making the requisite arrangements. Having said this he walked away, leaving his companion with Marley. This gentleman immediately thrust his arm through Marley's and led him beyond the house, where they were concealed from view by a small clump of bamboos. He then said, "Here we shall be beyond the reach of being overheard, and we will now make such arrangements as will afford us some sport, for I find your fiend, as well as mine, is equally impetuous, and it will be our own fault if we spoil a excellent joke." Marley a once perceived that he had to deal with a wag, but he could not divine how it was a subject of merriment for two gentlemen to meet in a hostile manner, and with deadly weapons. Without adverting to the mater of joke, however, he stated the terms on which Edward would arrange the matter -- "Psha, psha," answered his companion, "that will never do. My friend has expressly declared, that until your friend will recall his words, and acknowledge them unfounded and groundless, he will never make the recantation you desire. But between ourselves, let us bring them together, that we may observe what spunk is in them; for I like such fun dearly, and if you and I can understand each other, none of them will be hurt, I assure you upon the word of a gentleman." Marley replied, "If the explanation is satisfactory, and I am convinced that no harm will be the consequence, I have no objection to join you; but recollect that we are strangers, and the matter is of rather serious importance to be treated as a trifle." "Well, well," reiterated the other, "we will be better acquainted before all is over, and you may rely upon my being as averse to anything distressful occurring as any man who draws the breath of life this day. But since we have two hot-headed youths to deal with, and both partly in the wrong, we will treat them to a dish of reflection, which they will not soon forget, and which will furnish them with a salutary lesson, which they seem to stand in need of to be more guarded in their language in future, for which they will not only have cause, but he really thankful. Believe me; I have seen the experiment tried before, and in the instance which came under my view it proved successful; for one duel in a man's lifetime, in all conscience is surely quite enough. But to my plan. It is that we fix a day for them to meet, and as you and I the charging of the pistols, we will keep back the bullets, and substitute peas in their place, which I presume can do no harm at any distance, or if you please we will make it blank shot. Of course, as neither of them will be hut from the firs fire, we will put into their hands the reserve pistols, and after the second shot we will make up mattes, when they will shake hands, and be firm friends throughout life."

Marley, who relished the joke, when he foresaw there was no risk, assented, and asked his companion what was the place he thought most advisable for the parties to meet, and terminate this disagreement with as little publicity as possible, and at what time, as his friend was anxious to have it over. "That," says he, "I am afraid will be the most difficult part of the business to arrange; for although my friend is as brave as any Barbadean born, and as dreadless of personal fear as any man living, yet he has a most professed antipathy, and a cowardly fear, of standing a trial as a criminal at a bar. It was among the first, and it was also among the last expressions which he used before you came within hearing, -- 'My dear Sir, a duel, you know is a mere nothing; but a trial is the devil, and since we must meet, you must have it on a neutral ground, or out of our king's dominions; for should it be fixed to take place in this island, I never shall have a moment's peace till it is past, so afraid am I of killing any man, and standing a trial.' This is what he said, and it is my wish that he should be indulged so far, and I presume you would desire the same, if the meeting had any chance of being dangerous. I suppose besides, that to me belongs the right of fixing the spot and the time when the meeting should take place; for whatever may be the laws or practice on the subject, I think that the one who seems at the present time to have the most desire, and the greatest interest to live, should have the appointment of the ground. Now, although my friend is not married, he is on his journey from his home to meet his love, and fix upon h day when the marriage is to be solemnized; and I imaging our friend is neither married nor betrothed; I doubt not, therefore you will admit that my friend has a stake in life greater than yours."

"But, pray Sir, to what place do you allude," added Marley, "for you may rely upon my friend never consenting to go farther than the south coast of Cuba." "You have just hit upon the spot which I had pitched upon," replied he, "and as this is Friday, I would propose that the meeting shall take place upon Sunday." "I have no objection," said Marley, "farther than that from the shortness of the time we shall be unable to procure a barge." "Never make that a stumbling block," reiterated his companion, "I have one myself, and as I have some slight knowledge who your friend is, I will do for him the small favour of borrowing another from my neighbour with an excellent boat's crew, and I have little fear but they will carry us there in fourteen or sixteen hours at the farthest."

The arrangement was then completed, that Marley with his friend were to be on this gentleman's property of the Dry Rocks, a sea-side estate, on Saturday, a little before sun set. This time was fixed, in order that they might take an early advantage of the land breeze, expecting that it would carry them off the coast into the regular trade wind, and that with this later wind on their quarter, it would bring them nigh the Cuba shore, or till they met the land wind from thence. It was conjectured the morning would be far advanced by this time, and the land breeze would be gradually dying away, when the parties could either take to their oars, or wait till the sea breeze set in, and quickly terminate the voyage. The moon was at the full, and from the light afforded by her there was little danger of the boats losing sight of each other during the run. The gentlemen who were to officiate as seconds having parted, they separately communed with their friends, and they having agreed to the arrangement the two seconds met each other at the place they had appointed, and finally concluded that the meeting was to take place in the manner, and at the time already mentioned. And shortly afterwards Edward and Marley without waiting the dinner which was prepared for the amateurs, rode towards their home.

On reflection, as they journeyed homewards, Marley was sorry that he had omitted to enquire the names of the gentlemen with whom he had come into contact. It was such an oversight on his part that he could not help blaming himself for it, but it was now too late to remedy the omission, and they must act in consequence in the same manner as if they had the requisite information.

While on the road, Edward seemed too busy with internal cogitations to be inclined to enter into conversation. His actions shewed however that he was endeavouring to banish reflection from his mind, though not by the way of speck, but by goading his horse into a rapid pace, seeking relief from the state of thinking by violent exercise and with the care of his horse and himself. And although the ride was somewhat long in consequence of the speed which they made, they were at home shortly after the night had set in. Leaving Edward on Capua with a promise of visiting him early next day, Marley rode on to Singleton Hall.

Next morning Marley made a point of seeing young Singleton, whose appearance bespoke that he had not enjoyed the benefit of a comfortable night's repose, anxiety visibly appearing deeply to cloud his countenance; but without making any remarks, arrangements were made for their departure immediately after dinner. But as Marley did not wish to solicit absence after having obtained the indulgence for the day preceding, Singleton engaged to procure the consent of his uncle, on the pretence that they were going to visit a creole friend of his with whom he had been intimate in England and whom he had not seen for several years. In consequence, he accompanied Marley to the Hall, and on making his request, his uncle, without hesitation, assented. Matters so far being in a favourable train, Singleton in particular impatiently waited for the hour of departure, for throughout the day he did nothing but pace up and down, at time, apparently in a state of deep mental thought and at others in a state bordering on torpid apathy. But at any rate the feelings which agitated his mind were of the most poignant ad painful description, and the pangs which he sometimes could not conceal shewed to Marley that he labored under the highest degree of mental affliction. Feeling pity for him, Marley never left his company, thinking thereby, that if he could not altogether alleviate his concern, by withdrawing his attention from the serious nature of the affair in which he thought he was to be so soon engaged, his presence would have a tendency occasionally at least, to abstract his mind from such an unpleasant subject. Besides, he could scarcely contain his gravity knowing as he did, that the apprehended danger would all vanish in smoke; but, unlike Job's comforters, he endeavoured to calm his reflections by directing his mind to other subject; but his attempts were unavailing, although Singleton perceived his object for he said, "My dear Marley, you probably think I am afraid for myself, from the state of restlessness in which you behold me; but rest assured that such fear is the least which I feel. I am more afraid that I may occasion the death of my opponent than that he will occasion mine; and if I am doomed to be the unfortunate being to deprive another of his life, if the deed does not drive me into a state of instant derangement, there is something within which incessantly proclaims, that while existence remains the event will ever be alive and fresh in my memory to the total destruction of my peace of mind, and the extinction of all my dreams of happiness throughout my life. Besides, my dear friend, recollect that since the age of ten years I have been among strangers, and had none whom the affection of kindred caused to cling to me or I to them. Now matters are altered, and only one so circumstanced as I have been can truly appreciate the value arising from near connections. New unfelt ideas and feelings formerly unknown to me are yet young in my breast; and am I to be debarred, at this early stage of the indefinable sensations so lately perceptible to me? I have an uncle whom I love, an aunt who loves me, and a sister whom I only faintly remember as a child when I departed for England; I now find they are more dear to me than what I ever thought before my life was brought into jeopardy, and believe me, I would not wish them to feel a single pang for the loss of one whom they have so recently known; and to myself, the idea of parting, probably to behold them no more, is almost unbearable. My sister too already an orphan will lose her now natural protector, and how will her nature be able to support the deprivation of an only brother, and one with whom she has only for a moment been acquainted? When these recollections force themselves into the mind, in the shape of an embodied existence, whatever others may think of them, I must admit they prove really painfully distressing to me. But now since the fatal die is cast, I must and will go through with it, let the catastrophe be ever so fatal."

Marley was sincere in feeling pity for his fiend who with all his affectation possessed the genuine attributes of a virtuous and a worthy character; and the warm and affectionate manner in which his sensibility was touchingly expressed towards his relations and especially his sister, almost forced tears of sympathy into his eyes. But aware of the harmless nature of the contest, the burlesque was too uh in his view, to enable him to sympathise with the estate of anguish and conflicting thoughts which troubled his breast. He was aware however from the determined character and the high spirit evinced by his friend, that any knowledge of the true state of matters would cause the affair to terminate in a different and probably in a very serious manner. He therefore kept the most impenetrable silence on this head, offering him consolation in the way of making him think lightly of the combat by stating that such affairs of honour were seldom attended with fatal terminations. Singleton admitted such to be the case, but then they sometimes did, and this instance might add one more to the number.

Time, however, was gradually departing and the hour was on the eve of approaching when they must depart to keep their appointment. All things were in readiness -- their servants had been sent on different messages to distant places that they might not be in attendance and to prevent them having the power of surmising the nature of the journey. And if as from the want of recollection, no directions were left for the route which they were to follow there was little probability therefore of their following them their road leading them to leeward whereas all thought they were to proceed to windward.

In the course of a short time they had taken the proper direction, and from the turnings of the highway from Singleton Hall, they could not be perceived, and putting spurs to their horses, they imagined they were secure from all observation on the part of those whom they wished to remain in ignorance. On the road Edward assumed as much unconcern as he possibly could, and the afternoon being pleasant and having no recollection of the country through which they travelled, his attention was turned from himself towards the scenes which were perpetually rising into view, and in listening to the descriptions of his companion, who informed him of the names of the estates as they passed, with any peculiar circumstances which Marley had learned was attached to their history. In this manner they journeyed till they reached the seaside estate of the Dry Rocks.

Perceiving a tolerably fair looking house, they rode up to it, and on entering it, Marley beheld the gentleman with whom he had made the arrangement, giving instructions to some negroes. He politely welcomed Singleton and Marley, and rum and water with other sorts of spirits, were placed before them as a refreshment after their ride. Having quenched their thirst, he asked Marley to accompany him into another room to complete the arrangements necessary for crossing over. Marley complied and when they were by themselves he informed him that matters were kept so profoundly secret in that quarter, that there was little if any chance of the affair transpiring. That he had got the barges in readiness, lying in a small creek about a quarter of a mile from the house, with the people prepared to go on board at a moment's notice, and had given instructions relative to their horses, and had taken care to have everything in their oat which would tend to their comfort on the passage and protect them from the chilly cold of the evening. Marley returned him his thanks for his attention, and hoped when matters were amicably adjusted they should become better acquainte d.

Meantime a table was spread in the apartment for an early supper to Singleton and Marley the sun by this time having set; and although there was a dead calm, the land breeze was soon expected as it had been early felt the evening preceding. And while a message was sent for Mr. Singleton, on Marley's enquiry the gentleman informed him that the former's antagonist was in the house, but as it would answer no good end for him to make his appearance he was remaining in another room. Mr. Singleton having entered put a stop to the conversation; but before the gentleman of the house left them, he said that one of his people would conduct them to their barge whenever the breeze sprung up. Meanwhile they were to consider his house as their own, and call for whatever they desire, on which he departed, wishing them a pleasant voyage.

Singleton shewed a degree of composure and unconcern, as if nothing of any moment was on the tapis, and which must have satisfied the master of the house that he was a lad of spirit and of course he would rise in his estimation in proportion as he shewed this virtue. But when he was absent, and they had sat down to table, Marley could not help observing that he eat very sparingly, and all endeavours to prevail on him to take a hearty meal, to counteract the effects of the evening and sea air were ineffectual; but to make amends, his companion performed his part so well, that he entertained no fears of passing an uncomfortable night.

When supper was at an end, and they had left the table, they anxiously paced up and down the room in the momentary expectation of observing the fluttering of the leaves, or the feeling of the least breath of wind, which the open lattices of the apartment would freely admit. When expectation is on the tiptoe, time seems to lag and lengthen out as if it remained stationary, and to our friends this was their predicament. They were impatient to be off, but their wishes, ad Marley's whistling for wind, had no effect in raising it; and Mr. Singleton, who was almost incessantly looking at his watch began to despair of there being any land breeze that night. But shortly before eight o'clock the leaves of the trees were occasionally slightly ruffled -- the ruffling became more and more general and faint blasts became perceptible for a moment in the room. This raised their spirits. The breeze was commencing and of course would soon gain strength sufficient to waft them from the shore. Accordingly it was momentarily increasing towards steadiness, and while they were congratulating themselves on the favourable conclusion of the inquietude of the last hour, a strong robust negro entered saying, "Massa hab told him to take Massas to de boat, de land wind habing now blow."

Without hesitating a moment, they accompanied their guide about a quarter of a mile when they beheld a six oared barge with people in her having the masts up and the sails hanging in the wind. At the distance of a gunshot from them, they perceived another with people in it, launching off and gliding from the shore. Singleton and Marley were not a moment in entering when their guide immediately loosed the painter, leaped in, and put to sea after the other.

It was truly a delightful evening; not a cloud was to be seen, and the moon, with all the brilliancy and splendor which she exhibits within the tropics, emitted a silvery and pleasant light, soothing to the senses and grateful to the eyes, after experiencing the glare of an unclouded sun. The breeze was still light, but it was rapidly increasing in strength, and the barge was silently gliding after, and apparently making upon her consort. The objects on the land were gradually losing their distinctness and their individuality and as they receded from the coast, the indents on the shore were fading into lines.

Boat cloaks were furnished to the strangers which prevented them from feeling the cold chill of the breeze which had now freshened into a steady wind, wafting them rapidly along. Their consort, which had taken the lead, still kept it, but so inconsiderably that they might be said to be almost abreast, both making a course directly north. This mode of sailing continued for nearly three hours, when the breeze seemed to slacken as if spent, or as if retarded by something which opposed it, keeping less steady aft than it had done since leaving the land. For a short time this continued, the wind veering gradually round to the east till it finally settled in this direction. This was the true trade, having now passed beyond the boundary of the land breeze; and with the trade wind on their quarter; they were quickly proceeding through the water. The land which they had left was imperceptibly becoming less distinct, and all traces of known mountains ware gradually conglomerating into one huge mountainous mass, and this mass silently diminishing from the view. With a clear cloudless sky, neither Singleton nor Marley thought of seeking repose on the benches. Their novel situation in an open boat in a wide sea, together with the delightfulness of the evening, banished all ideas of sleep.

Gliding pleasantly along, with a steady wind and a smooth sea, Jamaica had so far receded from the view as to afford nothing agreeable in the landscape, and Cuba had not yet assumed any other appearance than a large dark speck on the horizon, portraying from its remaining stationary that it was lad and no fleeting meteor. The moon, which was sailing triumphantly in her course of circumnavigating the ethereal arch through the azure atmosphere, and the green sea beneath were the only objects of attraction to the voyagers. Such a soothing scene lulls every passion o res, and naturally composes the mind into a calm and pleasing state of contemplation. Singleton had fallen into a train of mental reveries, and all being hushed, Marley, with admiring the delightfulness of the evening the smooth water on which he was riding, and the charming land he had so lately left, almost unconsciously to himself, in imagination he took a retrospective view of the island behind and before him, at the period when the immortal Columbus added a quarter to the globe. It furnished food for musing melancholy -- probably, fancied he, this very tract which our barge now pierces, may have been ploughed by the keels of the canoes of happy Indians, who might have admired a still scene of placid moon-light like this. These Indians, mild in their nature, and cheerful in their dispositions, would have homes where they might have left those behind them whom they loved better than themselves. They might have children too, whose happiness was theirs, and whom they would hope would transmit their posterity downwards while time remains. There might be lovers also, who sighed for those they loved who were left behind. Nay, happy families might be in these canoes, so sorry might they be to leave each other even for a short space.

The islands still remain, the grass springs up, withers, decays, but other grass supplies its place. The towering monarchs of the forest still flourish, and full of ears, fall to the earth and become dust but their seeds replenish the earth, and they are renovated again. The flowers yield their fragrance and perfume the air. The fruit-bearing trees lavishly bestow their bounty in their season. The birds of the air flit from spray to branch, and from branch to spray, as if nature was still rejoicing in her youth, while all around a perpetual spring cheers the face of creation. But where is man the lord of all to whom this country, with all it contained, was assigned as his inheritance. Alas, where is there an individual to be found of these then happy, contented, peaceable, and friendly Indians. Teach Spain where are to be found the myriads of those natives who roamed in happiness and peace through their native wilds, in these three most Leeward Islands. You acknowledge they were a mild inoffensive race, that they received your people with humanity and kindness, and in requital, justice required they should be rewarded. But how dis Spain reward her friends, who feely bestowed, without any expectation of a return? Ask in Haiti where are the millions whom Columbus found? Ask for the many thousands who were happy in Jamaica and in Cuba? No answer can be heard, for of all the myriads of them not one who has sprung from their loins, or in whom flows a drop of their blood, sits under the shade of his plain-tree, or treads the soil of his father's land. No not one. Spain, thou wert too feeling -- thou knew the uncertainty of human life, with the misfortunes and miseries attendant on the lot of man, while sojourning in this terrene world. Noble Castilians, didst thou think the happiness of innocence no counterbalance to the dire mishaps allied to mortality in this chequered vale of existence? Didst thou then imagine thou wert conferring upon thy innocent and kind friends a merciful and a just, and a happy and beneficial reward for their favours lavished upon you, by bestowing on them an eternal sleep which the lightnings flash, or the thunders roar, shall never disturb, or the earthquakes shock, or the destroying hurricane shall never alarm. Noble Castilians, you have done this -- you have neither spared the root nor the branches. Like the spoiler, you came, and you destroyed. But where are there any monuments remaining of this unfortunate race to be seen. Alas! There are none. They have existed, but no marks of their having existed remains. No tombs, no tumili, no sighs, no stone, nor consecrated groves point where their bones are crumbling into dust. They once were, but like a passing cloud have they passed away, and now they are not and never will be more.

Noble Castilians! Thy ancestors in the West have exterminated an unoffending race. None of the merit of warriors can they claim, for the race was unwarlike and unacquainted with deadly combats. They have erected for themselves a pillar of infamy, which will remain a monument durable as time itself to eternize the remembrance of such a horrid deed. An indelible stigma shrouds the name of Spain for liberating such men in their cruelty. And while Spain has the whole opprobrium of mankind to support for giving birth to such monsters, she cannot, in justice, as some extenuation, claim for her sons the discover of the New World; the distinguishing merit of which belongs to Columbus, a native of a different state.

Marley's musing strain having been broken up by the talking of the negroes, to beguile time, he entered into conversation with the one who had conducted him and his companion to the barge and who also seemed to be the chief pilot. On enquiry, he learned that his name was Neptune, a name very appropriate, for he was a salt-water Creole, having been born on his passage to Jamaica, from that human nursery, where man is the staple commodity of its export traffic. He belonged to, and was the head fisherman and boatman on the estate of Little Bay, and his Massa had lent the boat with him and the other negroes to Massa Preston, of the Dry Rocks to accompany his barge to the other side. From his conversation, Marley learned that Mr. Preston was the owner of the property on which he lived, and that the oder buckra, as Neptune denominated him, was Mr. Bewly, who had a coffee mountain, with a pimento walk, in a parish somewhat to windward, called Mocha, on which he had a considerable gang of negroes. This was all he could learn from Neptune relative to the gentlemen in the accompanying barge, and from his indirect inquiries, Neptune apparently knew nothing whatever in regard to the names of places of abode of the passengers whom he carried.

With chatting with his companion and with the negroes who were with them, and when silence for any length of time prevailed, with building castles in the air, the dawn of morning was drawing nigh. The trade wind was still on their quarter, and from its remaining steady, and the land apparently considerably distant, it was evident they were yet far beyond the range of the Cuba land breeze. Keeping on their course, however, with as much canvas set as the boat could bear they were gradually proceeding along, and by the time the first tints of morning enriched the sky, the contour of the Cuba mountains were perceptibly rising into distinctness. The cheering approach of the luminary of day, with his soul-enlivening rays of light and beams of heat, created a sensation of pleasure in the bosoms of all present. The forerunner of the rising sun, in the cloudless sky, in a tropical climate, exhibits such a brilliancy of shades, of such a diversity of colours, as are truly sublime and beautiful, but, in duration, these tints remain for a very transitory space; the sun, in all his glory, springs so rapidly aloft as to dispel the fairy illusions which the reflection of his rays had called into existence for an instant. With day-light, Cuba seemed to be much farther off than what had been anticipated when they set sail. No appearance of the land wind was perceptible, and they began to dread the day would be far advanced before they would reach the shore. With the trades in their favour, they were steadily but smoothly wafting towards their haven, but four hours of day elapsed before they found the breeze gradually but decidedly treading more aft than they had experienced the stationary winds. It settled, however, in the south and with the benefit of this sea-breeze, for about two hours both barges reached the coast.

The place where the parties landed was an unfrequented part of the shore, some miles distant from a small fishing town. The spot had been chosen from its being well known to be so thinly inhabited, that no interference on the part of the inhabitants had any chance to obstruct them on the errand for which they had come. On Sunday, however, to the chagrin of Singleton and Marley, they observed a strange gentleman in company with the other party, and this being contrary to agreement, Marley took Presto aside, and enquired why he had brought a stranger with them, when the later explained that the gentleman was a Surgeon of his acquaintance, whom he had invited to accompany them in order to attach more solemnity to the meeting. After this explanation, they easily arranged the mode of the combat to their mutual satisfaction, and as each party had partaken of the refreshments which were in the barges before they reached the opposite coast, there was o occasion for any delay in settling their quarrel. They, therefore, with the Surgeon, walked a little way into the interior, which was Savannah land, till they reached a place abounding with trees, at such a distance from the shore that the negoes, who were alongside the boats, might be unable to see or to hear their fire. A suitable spot was immediately fixed upon the ground measured off and he pistols charged with powder well sent home. When the principals had taken their stances, Marley gave the work, fire! when both pistols instantaneously went off. After a pause of a few seconds, the reserve pistols were put into their hands, and the word being again given, they were instantly fired.

During this time, and throughout the whole period, they had been ashore, not the slightest symptom of trepidation of alarm did either of the gentleman exhibit; but as it would have been sporting overmuch with their feelings to keep them longer in a state of inquietude and suspense, Preston and Marley went aside, as if to commune on the subject, both of them having retained such a degree of gravity as to belie suspicion. But when they went aside, they could scarce refrain from laughing outright at the grave appearance which the two principals exhibited, but they did restrain themselves to prevent worse consequences. After chatting for a little, as if endeavouring to come to some arrangement, they returned with such proposals as they knew would prove acceptable to each of the duelists. These were that Singleton as the first offender was to express himself sorry for what he had said, attributing the same to the irritation of the moment, and not to any imputation on Bewly's character; and, on the other hand, the latter was to admit that the word which he used arose from the indignation of the moment, without any intention of giving an affront, but solely for making use of such a term towards a gentleman. The seconds accordingly made hose propositions to their respective friends, and as was naturally to be expected, they took a little time to consider. Singleton had some doubts, or pretended doubts on his mind implying that he thought his opponent should make the apology in the first instance, but Marley, knowing that he was more eager to have the matter terminated than to risk the fate of another shot, coolly mentioned to him that it would be a tempting of Providence to continue the contest now that each had given satisfaction, unless he was determined that their opposition should not cease till one of them fell. Since you have obtained satisfaction which is all that one gentleman can ask from another, you ought to be pleased; but if you are not, believe me I would not have concerned myself in the affair had I once thought your meeting was not to finish without bloodshed. Singleton cooled considerably on hearing this, and in reply stated that he had no with that blood should be spilt, and that if his friend thought the proposition was not censurable, he would assent.

Mr. Bewly having in like manner agreed to the terms, the parties faced each other, de their respective apologies, shook hands as friends, and the matter of quarrel was forgotten. The Surgeon perceiving from this conclusion that he would have no occasion to evince his skill, came and congratulated them upon their reconciliation; and thus terminated this affair, which at its commencement assumed so serious an aspect. And it would be a blessing if all seconds would act in so considerate a manner as those in this instance did, and if they only kept their own counsel, the lives of some worthy young men would be saved to themselves, to their families, and to the world.

Now that all enmity had ceased, the company returned to their boats, and after forming an awning with a sail, they prepared to enjoy a substantial meal, Mr. Preston having used the precaution of furnishing the oats with the good things of this life. Mirth was now the order of the day; and after the depression of mind which Bewly and Singleton must have felt, their spirits rose to an equally high pitch in proportion to the degree in which they had sunk, and they especially became all life and glee, so much so, that a good observer could from thence have ascertained whose of their feelings had been the most depressed. Bewly seemed to be a pleasant young man, as he had proved himself to be one of courage, and all were enjoying the passing moments with pleasure, when Singleton's name happened to be mentioned by Marley. The name appeared to strike Bewly with wonder, and even Preston looked somewhat surprised. After a pause of a few seconds, Bewly put the question to Singleton, "Pray, Sir, are you Mr. Singleton of Sweet Home Estate." "I am," was the answer. "My place," said Bewly, "is called Mocha, which bounds your aunt's estate of Logwood, and, in consequence, I have the pleasure of being acquainted with that lady and miss Singleton, and, believe me, am sorry that any altercation should have ever taken place between us, and had I known your name, and impossible to be recalled, our best way is to keep the subject from transpiring, if it possibly can be effected, for my journey to this part of the country, though probably you may not be aware of it, is for the express purpose of seeing Mr. Singleton, of Singleton Hall, on a subject which nearly concerns me. Let us keep our own secret, and I am sure our friends here will do the same." Singleton, of course, assented, and no farther explanation was given at the time.

Preston and Marley suspecting the true state of matters, strolled out to talk over the subject when Preston observed, he "thought he knew Mr. Singleton, but now found he had mistaken him for another person. "I can see what it is," says he, "it is Singleton's sister Bewly has come after. He told me he had obtained the consent of the lady's aunt, and now only wished that of the uncle, although he would not condescend to tell me any names. What we have done is now beyond redemption. It is a pity however that such an occurrence should have taken place, but if it transpires; our ignorance of the parties must plead our excuse. I hope it will not get wind, for if it does, I shall be thought a very curious fellow, nay, some of my gossiping friends will probably add to the matte by pretending that the whole affair was a plot of my own to oust my friend that I myself might get the lady. Believe me I would not wish to injure my friend Bewly in the slightest manner, especially in the peculiar circumstances in which he stands, for, if this should come to the ears of Singleton's uncle, he will be worth indeed, so decided an antipathy does he bear towards what are called affairs of honour -- and that it may get vent is not improbable, for these black fellows are as inquisitive and as cunning as so many devils. Before they stared last night, they would be forming conjectures about the object of the passage; and while we were absent, their surmises would not b few, nay probably some one of them may have sculked after us in such a manner as to have been unobserved, and beheld the whole. But let us hope that nothing will transpire previously to Bewly and Miss Singleton being so fast tackled as to preclude any degree of harm to him."

Nothing material occurred after this. No inhabitants were to be seen to wonder at what the Englishmen were doing in this remote place, or to create any disturbance, and in consequence, the party passed the time agreeably enough, being in lack of nothing which could render a marooning life pleasant. But when the strong sea-breeze, which blew directly on land, began to slacken as the day declined, the white people embarked in Mr. Preston's boat, and rowed to seaward, the borrowed boat with her people keeping company. As the breeze was gradually abating they made tolerable way, and before the land-breeze sprung up they had entered into the dominions of the true trade. Like the preceding passage, they experienced fine weather with a sky in which not the vestige of clod was to be seen. The moon rode triumphantly in her career and the company being all agreeable, time flew on the wings of pleasure, and before the approach of day was perceptible, the occasional quivering of the sails proclaimed that they were on the borders of the trade, and entering into the sphere of the night wind from the land. Making as much of the wind as they could, they veered with it as long as they could shape their course, and when it would not admit of it, they unshipped their masts and took to their oars. The negro boatmen being lusty, strong fellows, well acquainted with boating, pulled strongly, and the land-breeze not blowing fresh, they were getting forward exceedingly well. When the day broke, to the joy of all, the land was so near as to enable them to recognize the mountains which were familiar to them, and shortly after seven in the morning they landed in the cove from whence they had departed, making the passage in about sixteen hours.

The two youths reached Singleton Hall in the course of the forenoon, without anything having transpired relative to the purport of their journey and in the afternoon Mr. Bewly made his appearance as a visitor to Mrs. Fortrose. Some few days afterwards that gentleman stated his intentions to Mr. Singleton, and he having no objections to the match after consulting with the ladies, he gave his assent. And shortly afterwards the ceremony of marriage was performed, and he party returned to their own homes.

CHAPTER XVIIII

SOME few days after the trip to Cuba, as Marley was returning from an estate of which Mr. Singleton had the charge, his road led him past the residence of his forefathers. He was near it when he observed the clouds rapidly gathering, portending that a thunder storm was about to break. Unwilling to be caught in the deluge of rain which was on the eve of falling, he put spurs to his horse to reach the mansion of Happy Fortune, and obtain shelter till it was over, and had no sooner gained the house than the lightning flashed, the clouds began to burst asunder; the thunder followed, rolling in awful peals; and the rain descended in torrents, in a manner almost inconceivable to the inhabitants of the temperate zones. While waiting under the piazzas, pacing up and down, contemplating the grandeur of nature as portrayed in the storm, waiting till some of the negroes made his appearance to invite him to walk in, for the same familiarity in entering the mansion or residence inhabited by a proprietor is not so customary as in that of an overseer's dwelling, especially by strangers. While thus waiting he heard people talking within, whom, from their dialect he conjectured to be white, and immediately afterwards a negro old boy came to the door, and desired him to walk in. He was ushered into a spacious apartment, considerably darkened in consequence of the jealassie, or lattice blinds being closed to prevent the entrance of the rain; but there was light enough for Marley distinctly to see immediately on his entrance, the persons of Mr. M'Fathom, his daughter, and Mr. Brotherton, though they could not well discern who h was from their situation being towards the light, while he was much in the shade.

Passing up the room he first approached Miss M'Fathom, who was seated on a sofa with a book in her hand. She was nearest to him, he made his bow to her, upon which she half arose, her face instantly flushed, while in return, to his satisfaction, she gave a slight nod wither head. Approaching farther up the apartment to where the gentlemen were seated, he made his obeisance to them, apologizing for his intrusion by saying, "I have used the freedom to seek under this roof shelter from the storm." But though both gentlemen arose, intuitively returned the compliment, and gazing sternly on him, hey appeared surprised and astonished; but neither spoke. Finding himself in this embarrassing position, he added, "From your silence, gentlemen, I would seem I am an unwelcome intruder, if such you consider me, I will retire," and was turning ground to depart, when Mr. M'Fathom with much emotion, got out the words, "Young gentleman, you are welcome." Such a remarkable reception, together with the extreme emotion of mind evinced by her father in uttering the short and unceremonious welcome, brought her to him, when she asked, "Father, are you unwell?" Without receiving any answer she continued, "This is Mr. Marley who was once here before." Whereupon her father desired him to be seated. Marley seated himself; both the gentlemen did the same, and Miss M'Fathom went to one of the windows, as if to gaze upon the storm; but still the distressing silence continued, during which Marley did not fail to scrutinize the countenance of his father's executor. He thought that if ever conscious guilt was visibly depicted on any face, M'Fathom's then betrayed it. At the same time, he narrowly observed Mr. Brotherton; but he looked, he thought, "more in grief than anger." Miss M'Fathom had withdrawn from the window to a seat nearly opposite to Marley, and was evidently surprised and vexed at the reception of one who had been her companion for a few short hours, thinking, no doubt, that the behavior of the old people related to her having degraded herself by being particular to him when in his company.

After continuing in this unsocial state for some time, they were aroused from the perplexing reveries into which all seemed alike absorbed by the entrance of a servant announcing dinner. Mr. Brotherton who had not yet opened his mouth since the stranger's entrance, now did so, by desiring the boy to lay an additional cover, after which he invited Marley to dine with them. Without any hesitation Marley said, "With pleasure," for his heart throbbed to know how this accidental meeting would terminate. Mr. Brotherton rose from his seat, the rest followed his example, all seeming to get rid of their present taciturn situation, and went into the dining parlour.

Everything being placed on the table, Mr. Brotherton desired the attendants to retire, saying, they would be called upon when wanted. Dinner commenced in an equally inauspicious manner with regard to conversation as that of Marley's reception, and none seemed much inclined to eat. Brotherton filled a glass of wine, pledging Marley, without, however mentioning his name. M'Fathom did the same, and he having returned the compliment to them and their descendant, Mr. Brotherton broke ground with the observation, "Young gentleman, I presume it was you whom we had the pleasure seeing at the ball given here some months past." Marley answering in the affirmative, he continued, "You occasioned us considerable surprise, for no person, as far as we could learn, knew you, nor observed when you entered, or when you departed." Marley replied, "I was at the time upon an estate some few miles distant, and being partial to such parties, I expressed a wish to be present to a gentleman who was invited, he accordingly ushered me in openly enough, thinking that among the number who would attend, I would pass unobserved. In the same manner I departed, but amidst the confusion incident on such an occasion, there could be little surprise that no person would observe an unknown and nameless stranger."

Brotherton, without adding anything farther respecting this meeting, said, "You are a book-keeper, I understand." "I was once such," was the answer; "but I am so no longer, nor have I any intention of ever being one again." Wishing evidently to procure, b side means, information of who he was, he resumed -- "Have you been long in the island?" "Several months," was the reply. "Were you," questioned Brotherton, "recommended to any person here, or did you bring letters of introduction to any gentleman in quarter?" having stated that he had not, and after answering several other questions of a similar import which he put to him regarding where he came from, and whether his intention in coming out was to become a planer, Marley at length told him that he was born in Edinburgh, that he came to the island with a very different intention from that of becoming any man's servant; but as he had not attained the age of majority, he had taken a situation to learn something relative to the management of an estate. He then, in his turn, asked the old gentleman "why he was so particular regarding him?" He endeavoured to evade the question, but Marley, seeing his advantage, from the manner in which Mr. Brotherton spoke and looked, pressed him with the home interrogative, "Sir, Have you no special reasons for putting these questions to me?" The entry of the negroes to remove the dinner apparatus, put an end to any farther conversation for the time, during which M'Fathom said nothing, and his daughter was equally sile nt.

The table cloth being removed, Miss M'Fathom retired, with the subject was again resumed, by Marley asking Mr. Brotherton for an answer to his former inquiry. "Perhaps I may have," was Mr. Brotherton's answer; "but I beg you will answer me one question: Is your father or mother alive" "No, was the reply: "they were both drowned in the ship Emelia, on their passage to this island shortly after I was born."

M'Fathom then opened his lips, having previously sat in a state nearly bordering on stupor, and said, "If you please, Mr. Brotherton, we will drop this conversation." "No, no," said Mr. Brotherton, "I wish to sift this matter to the bottom, for I cannot bear that the surmises abroad should remain any longer unanswered." -- "Idle talk will be abroad," replied M'Fathom in a state of distress, mingled with that of anger; "but no person of any knowledge will credit such rumours, and therefore, I beg you to let this conversation have an end, and not detain the young gentleman any longer."

The storms for the time during which they remain, are violent within the tropics, yet, in general, they do not last long; and as night was setting in, Marley himself thought it was time he should depart from the neighbourhood of a place where M'Fathom, in a manner, bore unlimited sway, and where his life might be in danger. Mr. Brotherton, however appeared anxious that the subject should be renewed, but Marley rising, declared that he must go, alleging that he had good reasons for being at a long distance before night set in. Bidding Mr. Brotherton adieu, he said, "Mr. M'Fathom, you will hear from me soon, but there is one way which I presume you may understand whereby the matters between us might be arranged, supposing, as I do, that you are aware who I am, and of the nature of my claims, without the world knowing anything of the connection in which we stand towards each other." Brotherton either understood, or seemed to understand the allusion, for he asked where Marley was to be found; and Singleton Hall being mentioned, the two were put to a non plus, but Mr. Brotherton shortly afterwards added, "Say nothing on this subject till you hear from me, which will be by tomorrow or next day."

Mounting his horse, accompanied by his boy, in two hours he was at home, happy in the prospect of the speedy conclusion of his affairs which he imagined he now saw.

After his departure, as in course of time he learned the two old gentlemen were long closeted together. The subject discussed, ended apparently in a friendly manner, for they went to Miss M'Fathom's apartment to drink tea. When sitting at the tea table, Mr. Brotherton asked his granddaughter, "Pray my dear Mary, what do you think of the cavalier who dined here today, for I understand you and him are old acquaintances?" Miss M'Fathom blushed a little, while she smilingly said, "Why ask me?" "Because," retorted he, "I think you and him would form a happy couple." "But," reiterated the young lady, "You know, Grandpa, he is only a book-keeper." "Oh, never mind that," replied the old gentleman, "You have plenty, and he loves you, and I dare say will make you a good husband." "My dear Grandpa," said she, "Don't jeer me, for you know neither you nor my father would ever consent to my becoming he wife of a book-keeper, even if I should wish it. Don't say anymore, Grandpa, for I would not have been n his company had I not thought he was a gentleman and my equal." -- "But my dear," replied Mr. Brotherton, "he was a gentleman book-keeper, and he is as rich a young man as any in the parish. He is a frolicsome youth. He came among us at the jubilee, and, I believe, chiefly for the purpose of seeing you. At the time, we thought we knew him from his family likeness, but not thinking he was in the island, we could not be certain, for do you not know that your father is his guardian, and that you are at this moment in his hours?" Joy sparkled in her eyes, at hearing tidings so pleasing to her, for Marley had not erred in his conjecture, when he fancied that their love was mutual. She asked, "Grandpa, I hope you are not amusing yourself and making sport of me." -- "Believe me, my dear," says he, "it is true: I hope you will see him often to dinner, and in a month will be married to him."

By some means or other, M'Fathom had learned that the present Mr. Marley was alive -- was the sole heir of old Mr. Marley -- and that he had left Scotland for Jamaica, with proofs, supposed sufficient to establish his claim to his Grandfather's property. On M'Fathom's first beholding him at the jubilee, his appearance forcibly whispered to him that he was the person, and from his enquiries proving fruitless respecting who he was, he mentally concluded that he was Marley's heir, and that he had come to the Island, and was remaining incognito, in furtherance of intentions hostile to him. The likeness to old Mr. Marley also forcibly arrested the attention of Mr. Brotherton, who had all along, since something had transpired after his daughter's marriage, had cause to think that Marley had an heir alive, and that his son-in-law was not acting fairly towards him. But M'Fathom being of a distant character, he could not ascertain the actual fact from him till this evening. Mr. Brotherton had entertained a great affection for his old acquaintance, and in fact, was one of the chief promoters of sending the present Mr. Marley's father to the old country for his education, and, in consequence, his melancholy end affected him considerably. He was convinced, however from the mode in which young Marley spoke of his father, and, from his striking resemblance in features, that he was the grandson of his old companion; and from the conduct which he displayed at their meeting, the old gentleman imagined he could not fix upon a more eligible match for his darling granddaughter than Marley, and his mind was now elevated with joy at the anticipation, as he thought, of their families becoming united.

Next morning, on coming from the Overseer's house on the Estate to breakfast, Marley was saluted by Mr. Singleton, as the former entered the breakfast parlour with "Oh! Mr. Marley, I have discovered you at last -- you are my oldest friend Mr. Marley's Grandson." "What makes you think that?" asked Mr. Marley. "Why, because here is a letter from Mr. M'Fathom to you and his boy waits an answer." "If a letter from that gentleman," replied Marley, "proves it to you it will prove it nowhere else." On opening the letter, he found Mr. Brotherton inviting him to dinner on Happy Fortune, with a request to come at least two hours before, when something pleasing to him would be communicated.

"After all, Mr. Singleton," said Marley, "the letter is not from Mr. M'Fathom, but from his father-in-law, Mr. Brotherton, containing an invitation to dine with him." "I am convinced," answered Singleton, "that no such invitation would be sent to you unless you were in some way concerned with Happy Fortune, u of this you must know best. I advise you, however, to keep a sharp look-out on M'Fathom, who is not the worse of being narrowly watched. Take my advice, and enter into no arrangements with him in a hasty manner, and be cautious in writing or subscribing any paper whatever, but in these matters, from your education, I presume you are more able to judge than I; but remember that age has more experience than youth, however well-educated youth may be." Marley was unwilling to disclose anything relative to his situation with M'Fathom: he, therefore, assented to his reasoning, but with this proviso, of saying, that there was no risk, situated as he was, with regard to his conduct.

According to the letter, he pointedly attended at the time, when he found both gentlemen waiting for him. He was welcomed in a civil enough manner, M'Fathom apparently having quite recovered the use of his recollection since the last interview, and become in consequence the principal spokesman. After some short introductory common-lace discourses, with which none of the party could in any way be specially interested, he began with saying, "My young gentlemen, from what you said at paring yesterday it seems you presume to have some concern with me, I should wish to know what it is?" "Mr. M'Fathom," said Marley, "from what was stated last afternoon respecting the melancholy catastrophe of my parents, in my humble opinion, I think you must have formed some idea of who I truly am, and of the nature and title of my claim. If your question proceeds only from a desire to be satisfied that I am actually the person whose name I bear, and the son of the parents whom I have mentioned, I am enabled both by written evidence and the testimony of credible persons in this island to satisfy any reasonable man or set of men whatever. But if you have any intention of disputing my just right to this very property, and the proceeds arising out of it since the death of my Grandfather, and some other claims of lesser moment, entrusted to your management, as his executor -- for my own sake I will be silent till in another place." "Mr. Marley," added M'Fathom, "you must be aware that in this world there are a great many impostors." "I am quite aware of it," replied the other. M'Fathom coloured a little, but went on, observing, that "much caution is requisite in a concern so momentous, as you mention ours to be: it would therefore be the height of imprudence, nay, even of folly, to enter more minutely than I have done, without having some evidence more satisfactory than your bare assertion." "I am willing," rejoined Marley, "to satisfy you, as I have said before, that I am the identical person whose name I bear, and the only legitimate lineal descendant of Mr. Marley, who acquired this property with Conch Shell Penn, through my Grandmother, whose heir, of course, in like manner, I am. I will also farther shew, if necessary, that my Grandfather executed a strict entail of these properties which stands upon the record, as can be ascertained from an inspection of the books in the Colonial Secretary's office, and, if needful, I will produce the writhing or deeds of the same, with a statement subscribed by him and you a few days only previous to his death. If this should not be deemed altogether satisfactory, I will exhibit the letters forwarded by my Grandfather to Scotland, and the correspondence which passed between you and my maternal Grandfather, Mr. Steward, the statement contained in one of your letters, (the particular one I dare say you will remember) I have enquired relative to the circumstances stated in it; and I leave it to your own judgment to consider the effect of the publicity of the contents of such a letter." M'Fathom involuntarily shuddered at this last part of the discourse, but remaining his presence of mind, he said, "Produce to me this evidence, and then I will consider." "I will do no such thing," was the answer of Marley; "unless you agree to be satisfied with it as establishing my right, for you mistake me if you think that I am fool enough to lay open my whole vouchers and case, probably for the purpose of enabling you to oppose my just and righteous claim if an agreement to this effect is entered into, I am willing tomorrow or any other early day which is fixed to do so, on the understanding that I am to be allowed to bring along with me Mr. Singleton and Mr. Graceson, as witnesses to the transaction on my par while I can have no objection to your bringing whomever you please, as evidence on yours."

"Mr. Marley, you judge of me very strictly," replied he. When the former rejoined, "I am sorry to say, Mr. M'Fathom, that I have too much cause for being very strict with you. To be explicit. On my arrival in the Island, out of fear from your influence and wealth, and since the jubilee, from another more tender consideration, I have retained the secret within my own breast of who I really am; and till I went to live with Mr. Singleton, I never heard a suspicion hinted of my having been connected with Happy Fortune. A foolish story about me, or some other person, being taken for the ghost of old Mr. Marley, I believe, gave him and his lady occasion to mention the circumstance to me, but my seeming ignorance of any knowledge of such an occurrence put a stop to the subject until this morning, when Mr. Brotherton's card, which was delivered to him, caused the recurrence of the same discourse. He now maintains he is certain that I am concerned; but, on my declining, or rather evading, so enter upon the subject, which, rely upon my honour, was only for one reason, he looked somewhat cool, as if I was afraid to place any trust in his confidence."

At this period, Mr. M'Fathom interrupted him, with saying, "Will you allow me to ask you one question -- what inducement had you to come to the jubilee?" "I have several," replied Marley. "Among others, I thought I had a good right to be present in my own house, on such an occasion, especially, as I had learned that you and Mr. Brotherton had been there on a similar occasion to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of my Grandfather's residence in the Island, and I also wished to learn, from my own eyes, what kind of persons you and Mr. Brotherton appeared to be, the latter gentleman having been very highly commended, as an excellent character in the letters from the first Mr. Marley."

"At the jubilee, too, Mr. M'Fathom, I observed that you scrutinized me very narrowly, and I presume from that circumstance you had some consciousness from my family likeness of whom I was, and from your knowing me at first sight yesterday, I am almost assured that in my conjecture I have not been wrong. Bur now it is a matter of very little moment. I have again to repeat, however, that unless you accede to the arrangement which I have proposed, I must in justice to myself adopt steps which will not prove agreeable to your feelings, and which I am desirous to avoid for your own sake, as well as that of your daughter and Mr. Brotherton; for believe me, I am the very last person in the world who would wish to make an exposure of your conduct towards me. Or if you think it more advisable that no strangers should be acquainted with the transaction, we might easily enough settle the business between ourselves. In my opinion it would be the preferable mode, and if you should consent to another request which I may afterwards make, the accounting for the bye gone proceeds will thereby be rendered very easy.

"Mr. Marley, from what you have already said, and from some other information which I have casually received," proceeded M'Fathom, "I am convinced of your being the grandson of Mr. Marley, and rest assured that I have been ashamed of my conduct ever since I learned that the life of your parents terminated so fatally. At that unfortunate period I was much indebted to my correspondents in London and I could procure no other mode of extricating myself out of my difficulties, and preventing the sale of Equity Hall, than that of appropriating the proceeds of happy Fortune and the Penn to my own necessities. Believe me, at this time I had no other intention but that of afterwards accounting with Mr. Stewart on your behalf for the same; but as some years had to elapse before I could clear myself from my own embarrassments, I was in a manner compelled to frame the excuse of which I perceive you are aware. Which excuse seemed so satisfactory to Mr. Stewart, that in the course of four or five years after he dropped the correspondence, which induced me to think that you had died.-Knowing well that your grandfather never acknowledged any relations of his own, I thought it prudent to say nothing on the subject, to prevent the estates getting into Chancery, out of which they would never come, thinking it would be better, and would be more agreeable to the will of the deceased, if he could give any assent, that I should realize the profits, rather than men whom he had never seen, and a class of men, too, towards whom he bore no good will."

After the correspondence had ceased with M. Stewart, I had no intelligence of you, which naturally enough made me conclude you were actually no more; until, shortly after you had embarked for this island, I had information from a friend of mine who had been long a resident in this country, but has since taken up his abode in Edinburgh. He had been acquainted with old Mr. Marley, and had casually heard it rumoured in a company where he had been, that a person of your name had sailed for Jamaica with the intention of claiming valuable estates in this parish, of which, along with other matters, he informed me. You may be assured that I was surprised at this intelligence, and my surprise was not lessened at hearing nothing from you whatever, or even hearing that such a person had arrived in the country. On the jubilee night, however, I must confess your features forcibly brought you into my recollection; but being ignorant of your name, and from the circumstance of receiving no application form you, I was dubious of my own eyesight. When I head your name mentioned sometime after I was startled, but the same objection, from your silence, still remaining, I concluded you only bore a similar name, but the eeting yesterday dispelled the illusion. I am happy at the mode last proposed. The alliance with my daughter, at which I presume you hinted, will give me the highest pleasure, and in the marriage articles I will throw in Equity hall, and all that I am possessed of, to you and yours after I am no more; besides I will instantly put you in possession of a pretty large sum of money, in pat extinction of your other claims. And although, ever since I have appropriated your property to my own use, misery has been my lot, I hope happier days will now await me."

Mr. Brotherton, who had not interfered in the conversation, from a willingness to allow the whole matter to be settled between those most interested, now congratulated them upon the amicable arrangement they had made, saying that since Equity Hall was to be thrown in he would add Brotherton Hall to the bargain, at the same time slyly hinting to Marley, that his fair mistress would be nearly as happy at the event as himself. And thus the hopes of Marley were realized to a greater extent than his most sanguine expectations had ever flattered him, and his joy was as great as any mortal ever felt who was happy in his love, and successful in his fortune.

Before they departed for dinner, it was determined to have a large party eight days after to celebrate the occasion of Mr. M'Fathom's ward coming to the island to take possession of his estates. This was necessary to prevent surmises and the tittle-tattle of a small community, where scandal is always the predominant trait in the character of the inhabitants. And in order to obviate any bad effects arising from the circumstance of his having resided so long in the colony without being recognized -- it was to be attributed to a frolic, and the desire of not interfering with his own property till he became of age. His being well mounted, and something of a sporting character, would, it was imagined, pass current with the great portion of the people that he was not sparingly supplied with funds by Mr. M'Fathom; and the appearance which he made, and the accomplishments which he displayed, would tend to shew that his education had not been neglected. All which arts required to be practiced to prop a sinking name; but the knowing ones were not to be so taken in, though among the mob it was received as current coin.

The message that dinner waited, sent them into the dining-hall, where they were soon joined by the lady, whose hand was to cement all differences. Her father introduced Marley to her as his ward in the best manner he could, and from the sparkling of her eyes, it was an introduction which did not bring sorrow along with it. The tinge which heightened the colour of her complexion of a deeper carnation, while she smiled in returning the salutation, announced that her grandfather's proposal was not forgotten. A short time, however, had only elapsed before she was comparatively at her ease, when she congratulated him upon his fortune, and laughed at the mode in which they had become acquainted in his own house, and of their afterwards meeting in such an incognita manner, without her knowing that they were such near neighbours. Innocent herself, she had not an idea of the duplicity of her father, and it would have been cruel indeed to have wounded her virtuous nature with the slightest hint of his having defrauded, or of his having intended to defraud, the orphan.

Dinner was soon over and the gentlemen made an apology for leaving the young couple together on the pretence that they had to superintend the preparing and sending off the cars for the ensuing fete. Thus left to themselves, the lady became shy, and with female modesty was probably thinking, that the offer which she had heard mentioned was now about to be made in form -- she talked less, seeming as if engaged in thought. However, she required to speak sometimes, whereby she herself furnished the occasion for introducing the subject, by observing, that since he had come to the country, she must be preparing for a final leave of happy fortune for Equity Hall. Marley seized the opportunity of hinting that there was no necessity -- and spoke of his love in the most ardent manner, but without receiving any affirmation or rejection. She blushed at the proposal, and, as is usual in such cases, said that she had not bestowed a thought on altering her condition -- that it would be time enough some few years hence, and a deal of such common-place love observations, though all the while wishing to consent; but, according to the female mode of education, fearful of being thought too forward, and thinking that a slight stand tends to enhance the favour. Marley was too determined to be vanquished in such a manner, and pressing her hard, she at last timidly declared, (her face suffused with blushes) that she would pledge her hand and heart to him sooner than any other man whom she had ever seen; but that without her father's consent she would never wed. having thus gained her consent, he next insisted on her agreeing that it should take place on the day he attained his twenty-first year, which she already knew was only at a month's distance, but with this request she at first also absolutely refused to comply, but on his firmly persisting in the manner to which he had formerly recourse, he soon found that she was incapable of refusing him anything.

Happy in his love, and elated with his fortune, the occurrences above detailed did not pass over without being garnished with much of the impassioned language of the feelings, and the tender expressions of love. -- While Marley was in the middle of a long harangue on the affection which be bore towards his love, and was professing that it would be the end and aim of his life to render her happy, a loud noise, as if some hundreds of bedlamites had broke loose, put a speedy termination to his discourse.

The sounds proceeded from a large body of negroes, who had come in front of the house, exhibiting all the extravagancies of an uncivilized race, who were animated with joy, dancing in the African fashion, to the rude music, if it deserves such a name, of their favourite gumba, and from the audible exclamations which were sounding from all quarters, that they wanted to see their young massa, plainly spoke the cause of their appearance. As they came up to the house, they rushed in crowds into it, and seeing only Marley and Miss M'Fathom, they felt they could not be wrong. Without making any ceremony about an order of introduction, the room was soon nearly filled with them, each making his bow, and with "God bless massa, we're happy to see him on happy Fortune, for him much long time away." Each was eager to catch a glance of his eye, and his knowledge of the negro manners enabled him to please them in their own way. Homage of this kind was paid to him as their liege lord, and the varied group of both sexes, from the old tottering on the brink of eternity, to the child of a few years old, nay even of a few day, (for the pickaniny mothers brought with them those at the breast, in order that they might also see their massa). A more joyful set of countenances could nowhere be seen, far more so than if they had been told that they were free, for the most of them ever desired their freedom, and at the present moment none thought of it. They were happy to see the man upon whom they had a claim for everything which they considered valuable in life, and who, in the present state of their society, was their natural protector; for to no other source than to him could they look for help in the time of need. Without much deference, however, to the presence of their massa at an occurrence they almost despaired of ever beholding, and the intelligence communicated to them this afternoon was so wholly unexpected, their rude ebullitions of joy was in consequence so over excessive, that it must have vent, and it was allowed to evaporate in song, noise, and dancing, even in the very room where Marley with his intended bride were, and in the passages and all around the house.

Marley wished to have ordered them some rum, but feeling averse to interfere with the property so very early, he waited impatiently for the appearance of Mr. M'Fathom. When he came on Marley mentioning his wish, that gentleman instantly said there was not any occasion for applying to him, for he should have given the order himself; he gave it, however, and the negroes retired to the overseer's house to procure its fulfillment.

Feeling quite happy, the evening had somewhat advanced before he departed to Singleton Hall to take his leave, previously to residing in the house of his forefather. When he reached the hall, the female part of the family had retired to rest, and there being now no occasion for mystery, he told Mr. Singleton, and a trio of gentlemen belonging to the neighbourhood who were present, that he was obliged to resign his situation, as the cares of happy Fortune and Conch Shell Penn had devolved upon him. Singleton, staring up, exclaimed, "I always thought this would be the upshot, and believe me, I am rejoiced to hear it for your own sake, as well as that of my old and best of friends, your revered grandfather." And the other gentleman joined in congratulating him as proprietor of such fine estates.

Mr. Singleton was nearly mad with joy, in which perhaps some quota of it might be attributed to his envy and hatred of M'Fathom, and in his joy he swore like an overseer, (a term in general more appropriate than that of a dragoon, in so far as the former greatly excel the latter) that he would make a night of it, and was so noisy that he alarmed every living soul in the house, bawling for wine and warm water. His noise soon procured him materials for a set- to at sangaree; but instead of sangaree he made sangrorum, or a beverage of half wine and half water, with sugar, nutmeg, and lime juice. This drink was rather powerful, but in it health and happiness to Marley, with welcome to the island, and hopes that he would not become a non-resident, like too many of the proprietors, was given by the landlord, and drank by all. Marley replied in a suitable manner, and numerous other toasts and sentiments following fast on each other, he endeavoured to leave the company, but finding that he could not effect his purpose without giving umbrage to his host, he was obliged to remain, though he foresaw that it would end in a debauch, as it actually did, and that at an hour nearly approaching to morning.

After breakfast next morning he bade adieu to his kind host, and rode towards his own home. Previously to entering he made a circuit which brought him to the works and buildings on his own estate, and which he was happy to find in excellent condition, and the plantations in the best state of cultivation known in the country, evincing to him in the most satisfactory manner, that in this respect Mr. M'Fathom was a faithful executor. The white people being engaged in their respective employments,he saw none of them, and after the inspection he went to the mansion-house, now his own. Here he found his intended partner for life with her grandfather, the latter of whom insisted that she and Marley should visit his house, and dine with him that day. But before departing for this purpose, Mr. M'Fathom entered, when he, with Mr. Brotherton, accompanied the young proprietor to the works on Happy Fortune, when he introduced him as such to the overseer and the other white people belonging to the property, informing them, that in future they must receive their orders from him; and afterwards they proceeded to Conch Shell Pen, where a similar ceremony was performed. And thus Marley, after all his alarms and fears, that he never would have the pleasure of realizing his hopes, felt and saw them realized and recognized in the most ample and satisfactory manner, without having recourse to "the glorious uncertainty of the law," to put him in possession.

From these visits, so interesting to Marley, they sped to Happy Fortune, where Miss M'Fathom mounting on horseback, (though an uncommon circumstance for a Creole lady) they went to Brotherton Hall. All were friendly and well pleased with each other, Mr. M'Fathom especially being in higher spirits than Marley had yet seen him, and at dusk they bade Mr. Brotherton good night, and departed. When at home, Marley taking advantage of the casual absence of his adored, expressed his hopes to her father that he would consent to the marriage, and that it should be celebrated on his birthday, to which the latter readily agreed, leaving it to him and his daughter to settle the mode and time as they themselves pleased; and shortly afterwards they retired for the night.

It is more easy to imagine than to describe the feelings which pervaded the breast of Marley when he entered his bedroom -- the room in which his father was born, in which his grandfather had died, and of which he, their descendant, was about to take possession. A pleasant kind of satisfaction formed a prelude to these solemn reflections for ancestors whom to his recollection he had never seen in hoping that if the spirits of the departed have any knowledge of what is passing in this nether world, they would feel pleased that justice though tardy, had now restored to its rightful owner the sublunary possessions in which they were so much interested while on earth. Sleep, though dispelled for a time by such contemplations, at last overcame nature, and the body and mind sunk into that state of torpid forgetfulness which is so nearly allied to the subjects which had occupied his waking thoughts.

Next morning Marley rose with the appearance of day, and shortly after he found Miss M'Fathom prepared to accompany him to the town. The carriage being in waiting, they drove off, Marley feeling proud at thus having an opportunity to shew his fair companion, and that now he would be seen in the light which he justly though was his due. He would have wished to have driven up to the house of his friend Mr. Graceson, but with a white lady in his company, this would have been setting decorum so much at defiance, that he felt it would be unbecoming to do so; Mr. Graceson being one of those gentlemen who was attached to a brown lady, and in to such a house no white lady will deign to enter. In consequence, he conducted Miss M'Fathom to the residence of a lady of her acquaintance to breakfast, the houses of those gentlemen with whom he had any intimacy being in the prescribed list, so far as regarded the fair females of the island.

After breakfast, however, Marley left his love with her own acquaintances, and paid his respects to Mr. Graceson, who expressed himself happy at the fortunate turn his affairs had taken, and wished him much joy of his marriage, the news of which, it seems, had transpired, for it was openly spoken off in the town. Bidding him adieu, he enquired after the two Ensigns, and surprised them with the result of his having entered into possession of his estate. They were pleased with his success, and proud at the same time, that they had an acquaintance of the first rank of life in the parish, or even in the island, and it required little pressing to gain their company on a visit to Happy Fortune.

After fishing the purchases which had brought them to the town, the happy pair accompanied by the Ensigns, drove off for Singleton Hall, and, after passing a few hours with the inmates, at dusk they returned to their home. The Ensigns were received with much cordiality by the two old gentlemen as the companions of their newly-acquired friend. The days passed over with pleasure to the whole party, till the arrival of the gala day, fixed for the public introduction of Marley, as the heir of Happy Fortune, Sugar Estate, and Conch Shell Penn.

Since the young gentleman had become an indweller in the house of his ancestors, he had several times, unobserved, examined the concealed chamber, so often alluded to, where he found all things the same as mentioned in the last letter from his Grandfather. On the night preceding the gala day, however, he entered, and removed from it the rich service of plate, which the old gentleman had deposited therein, and placed the same n a room, nearly adjoining, for the purpose of using it on the morrow. Unperceived, he got it all out, and the apartment in which he placed it, having a door which opened into the breakfast parlour, next morning he threw it open, immediately before the company in the house entered. In the countenances of Mr. M'Fathom and Mr. Brotherton, at beholding this massy service of plate, which they knew well, though they had not seen it for twenty years, surprise was strongly depicted. They were cautious enough, however, to let nothing escape from them on the subject; but Miss M'Fathom did not fail to express her pleasure at the rich heir loom belonging to the house, while the sight of it could not but afford to the old gentlemen positive proof that Marleys title to the property was unquestionable.

At the fete given, there were present the beauty, wealth, and wit, of at least three parishes, and Marley's former acquaintances, when a book-keeper, were not omitted to be invited, and to attend -- nay, even his shipmate, Campbell, made his appearance, and remained on the estate for several days to congratulate him upon his good fortune. Young Mr. Singleton, himself, was not absent; and although he perceived his hopes of succeeding in gaining the affections of the fair heiress were totally blasted, yet, in appearance, if not in reality, he cordially expressed his joy on Marley's succession, with wishes for his future felicity. The night passed in all the mirth attendant on such occasions; but as we must now hasten to a conclusion, we will not enter into details farther, than saying, that Marley was received by the society, of which he was to form a part in a very flattering manner, with the hope that he would not become a nonresident from the island, as too many had already become.

In due time he led the beautiful heiress of Equity Hall and Brotherton hall to the altar; and the young couple bid fair to attain as much happiness and felicity as this mortal state is capable of yielding. -- He placed Mr. Campbell on his own property, where he was under his own eye, while he procured, for his former brother book-keeper, the management of another restate; and they had every prospect of getting rapidly forward in the world.

With his own personal success, he did not forget his ancestors, for, in testimony of his respect and esteem for the memory of his Grandfather, and of his own parents, and as a lasting memorial of his gratitude for the exertions of the first of the Marleys, which had been the means of placing rank among the highest in the land -- and also being unwilling to be classed with -- "Those rich-left heirs, that let their fathers lie without a monument," he caused a splendid mausoleum to be erected in the garden of Happy Fortune over the grave of his Grandfather, with suitable inscriptions, in commemoration of his merits and of the melancholy fate of those who gave him birth.

Now that he is seated at his ease, his attention has been devoted to ameliorating the condition of his labourers, by every practicable means, without proving hurtful to themselves or to his own interest. He is determined to abolish hoe-husbandry as much as possible, by the introduction of plough tillage to its fullest extent, to save the strength of his people, and to adopt every other mode of instructing and encouraging them, which may seem beneficial to all concerned. He trusts his efforts will prove successful, and it is the hope of humanity that they will do so, and be generally imitated. And though prejudice, for a time, may disapprove of his plans, we shall be happy to learn that the good sense of the majority of those most vitally interested, had approved of them by following a similar moderate course of amelioration, and that the Colonial Legislatures have adopted measures tending to the improvement and the well-being of their servants and beneficial to themselves.

Slavery will then gradually cease -- an increase of free labourers will be the consequence -- willing service will become less expensive than the present mode of forced work -- and though black, a virtuous race of peasantry will inhabit these islands, and happiness, contentment, and prosperity, will be the blessings which will crown the whole.

NOTE

Since the greater portion of the foregoing sheets was printed, it has been learned that the Colonial Legislature of Jamaica has shewn an eagerness to improve the condition of the slaves, in so far as they abolished the flogging of women -- admitted the testimony of slaves in criminal cases against the whites -- abolished the holding of markets upon Sundays -- and, in other respects, evinced a praiseworthy desire for the amelioration of the lot of the slave. And it is probable they would persevere in their humane endeavours, till every well-disposed and industrious negro would have the means in his power, from his own exertions, to purchase his own and his family's redemption from forced service. They also conferred an act of justice in favour of the free coloured population, by allowing them to save deficiency, whereby they were enabled to hold situations as Planters, from which they were formerly in a manner debarred, in consequence of the old law requiring one white person to be enrolled, in the Colonial Militia, for about every fifty negroes which any proprietor might have, or in lieu of each one to pay 50 annually. In this manner, the Colonial Legislature of Jamaica had acted in their revision of the Slave laws, but it seems Mr. Huskisson has thought they have not gone far enough, and therefore has returned the Act to the Island, without approval, thereby annulling what had been done in favour of the Slave.

THE END