SCENE I. -- A view of an extensive plantation in Jamaica. -- A gate L.U.E. -- A large house R. -- The perspective represents, in figures, slaves, oxen, &c. tilling the ground, and working. -- At the back are sugar houses, and a practical wheel, as of a mill at work.

(NEGROES discovered at work; they come forward, and the OVERSEER sing.

Black ladies and gentlemen, I pray you draw near,
And attend to the words of your grand overseer.
Leave work till to-morrow, my hearts -- in the morning
Be jovial and gay,
For this is the day,
Miss Rosa, the good planter's daughter was born in.
'Tis our lady's birth-day,
Therefore we'll make holyday,
And you shall all be merry,
And you shall all be merry,
Sing ting-a-ring, &c.

CHORUS.

Good massa we find,
Sing ting a ring, sing terry,
Where buckra man kind,
Then Negro heart merry,
Sing ting-a-ring, terry
Huzza! Huzza!

OVERSEER. Now, my black beauties, quiet your ebony pipes, and listen to the words of your Grand Overseer. Be it known to all that this is the birth-day of the Lady Rosa, the fair daughter of our own benevolent master, Mr. Ormond.

(NEGROES shout.)

QUASHEE. Bless her heart! she bery kind lady, she make fine wife for buckra man.

OVERSEER. Right, Quashee: and there's a buckra man coming to make a fine husband for her -- Captain Orford, to whom she has long given her heart, returns this very day to claim her hand.

QUASHEE. Captain Orford! Oh! he good kind man, too; me never forget when he here before, long, long, long time eber since ago: he save poor black much floggee, floggee; me wish him happy long time, marry good old wife, and many good pickaninies.

OVERSEER. And in requital of such good wishes, our good master gives you a holyday. (NEGROES shout.) Adieu to labour! Let the sugar canes take care of themselves, and hey for mirth and merriment! (NEGROES shout.) And a fig for Obi, and Three-Fingered Jack!

(NEGROES, evidently alarmed, look cautiously around, and drawing close to OVERSEER, exclaim, "Hush!")

OVERSEER. What the devil's the matter with you all? Has the name of that three-fingered rascal power to stop your mirth so suddenly?

SAM. Oh, massa, take care, he hear us and make Obi woman kill us.

OVERSEER. Nonsense, nonsense! ye black ninny hammers. Do you think an old woman, as great a noodle as yourselves, can stop your wind-pipes by cramming parrots feathers, dogs' teeth, broken bottles, rum, and egg-shells into a cow's horn, and then mumbling a few words over it, as incomprehensible as your own fears?

QUASHEE. Oh, massa, you say what you please, but Obi woman know ebery ting from top of head to bottom of toe; and if once she put Obi o poor negro man, he no eat, he no drink, he no nothing, but pine, pine, pine, pine, pine and die away.

OVERSEER. Why, ladies and gentlemen, to judge from your aversion to work, Obi seems rather a fashionable disorder, but as to not eating, drinking, or sleeping, I really discover no symptoms of the complaint, so set your minds at rest, and enjoy the sports. See! our master approaches.

(Shout. ORMOND enters, R.2 E., all the NEGROES crowd round shouting, and expressing great affection for him.)

ORMOND. Thanks, thanks, my friends! We may every moment expect the arrival of Captain Orford. The vessel is in harbour, and ere this he must have landed; so haste and prepare to receive him with the respect due to the intended husband of your young mistress.

(Music. -- NEGROES shout and exeunt, V E.L., NEGRO girls exeunt, 2 E.R.H.)

 OVERSEER. Ay! they can shout loud enough now, though but a moment ago, the very name of Obi and Three-fingered jack struck them as dumb as -- 

ORMOND. I charge you name not that murderous villain in my presence; you awaken recollections which pain, which agonize me.

OVERSEER. Dear sir, your pardon, I knew not -- 

ORMOND. No, I allude to scenes long past; to scenes of joy and happiness for ever blasted by the ruffian you have named. Alas! this very day, the birth-day of my Rosa, was the one on which I saw her mother fall beneath the hands of that accursed wretch.

OVERSEER. Good Heavens! was your wife the victim of his cruelty?

ORMOND. Long had he been on the estate, and long had every art been tried to soothe his savage nature, for Heaven knows I pitied the unfortunates, and strove by kindness and humanity to mitigate their cruel lot. With Karfa, (for so was he then named,) alone, my efforts failed; each day but added to his ferocity; crime followed crime, until the villain dared to attempt the honour of my wife. The signal punishment which awaited him drove him to madness, and under shade of night he burst his bonds, broke into my chamber, and before my sight murdered my unhappy wife. Vainly I endeavoured to grapple with the monster -- his giant strength dashed me to the earth, and in the confusion the wretch escaped.

OVERSEER. And has no attempt been made to secure the murderer?

ORMOND. Often. But all have failed; the negroes dread his incantations, and many of our colour believe him possessed of some supernatural power; he has neither accomplices nor associates; alone he plunders, alone he combats, and has hitherto ever destroyed his pursuers or retreated to fastnesses where none dare to follow him; still his malice seems levelled more at me than others, and I often fear my daughter's life will fall a victim to his hatred.  (shouts are heard, and distant music announces the approach of ORFORD.) But hark! the gallant Orford comes. Haste and bid them conduct my daughter hither.

(Exit OVERSEER, R.1 E.)

(Music. -- Negro's march. The MALE SLAVES enter, with garlands and emblems, L.U.E. preceding CAPTAIN ORFORD and TUCKEY. ORMOND affectionately embraces ORFORD.)

ORMOND. Orford, most welcome! behold, my daughter comes.

(Music. -- Re-enter OVERSEER, R.I.E. followed by KITTY and the Female Domestics, preceding ROSA.)

ORMOND. This is indeed a moment which atones for years of sorrow, a moment which gives a protector to my child in every manner worthy of her.

ORFORD. At least one, sire, who will endeavour to merit such high praise.

ORMOND. Rosa! I know your heart beats responsive to your father's wish.

ROSA. It ever has done so, sire; nor does it now incline to disobey.

ORMOND. My every wish is gratified. Come, friends, to the house, where song and dance shall usher in the hour which gives you, Orford, a new claim on my affection.

(Music. -- ORMOND leads ROSA to car, and she is carried off in procession, the GIRLS dancing, MEN shouting R.H.U.E.)

 SCENE II. -- A room in the planter's house.

(Enter KITTY, R.H., followed by TUCKEY.)

TUCKEY. Come, my pretty maid, be brisk; Mr. Ormond and the captain intend to go out shooting for a few hours, so fly and bid the servants prepare.

KITTY. Fly, indeed! Quite free and easy. Pray, where did you learn to forget the difference between black and white, my dingy spark?

TUCKEY. In England, my dear, where, truth to speak, though I saw many pretty damsels, I saw none that could in any way compare with you, fine model of perfection.

KITTY. Upon my word, the boy has some sense, and is not so dingy as I at first thought him. Exit. L. H.

TUCKEY. Ah, we poor blacks have a weary time of it, and are as much railed at as if the darkness of our skins were a sample of the colour of our hearts.

SONG. -- TUCKEY. "Possum up a gum tree."

AIR, -- Native Melody.

Opossum up a gum tree,
His tail his body follow,
Racoon quickly him see
Looking out o' hollow -- 
Pull him by the long tail,
Opossum squall -- opossum squall,
Racoon stick his long nail,
Him louder squall -- him louder squeak,
Opossum up, &c.

Opossum him look shy now,
Racoon grin, Racoon grin,
Opossum wink his eye now,
Move him chin, move him chin,
Opossum down him stumble
From the tree, from the tree,
And make him 'gin to tremble,
Racoon he, he, Racoon he, he,
Opossum up, &c.

Black boy him love Jill Jenkins,
Tink he'll wed -- tink he'll wed,
His massa chide him thinking,
Beat him head -- beat him head,
Black boy him love rum, too,
Make him groggy -- make him groggy,
But massa make him come to
When him floggy -- when him floggy.
Opossum up, &c.

(Exit TUCKEY, L.) 

 SCENE III. -- Interior of OBI WOMAN's hut. A fire -- a bench before it having figure -- covered with a white cloth on it. Wand for OBI WOMAN -- charms, and a handful of feathers in OBI WOMAN's wallet. The fire under an iron pot, suspended by three sticks as in Guy Mannering.

OBI WOMAN discovered, sitting near fire, forming an Obi. After performing several incantations, she speaks.

Magic fire duly placed
In square within a circle traced,
Boil the mystic herbs I've brought,
Till the Obi charm be wrought;

Bones I've raked from the burial ground,
When night and the storm were black around;
Give strength to my work, till I've fixed my dart,
Like a cankerous thorn in the white man's heart -- 
Till I pierce him and wring him in nerve and spleen
By the arrows felt, but never seen.

Then by flame unbodied burn him,
Then on racking windlass turn him,

Till his sinews quiver and ache anew,
And the cold sweat falls like drops of dew,
Toil him and moil him again and again,
Sicken his heart and madden his brain;
Till strength, and sense, and life depart,
As I tear the last pulse from the white man's heart.

(Music. -- As the OBI WOMAN completes her charm, three loud knocks are heard, she trembles, and advancing cautiously to the door, demands, "Who's there?" A voice answers, "Karfa!" She immediately unlocks the door and THREE-FINGERED JACK enters.)

JACK. Well, mother, how work our charms? do they hasten to an end! or still, tortoise-like, so creep to their completion, that the white man's breath is more like to waste with age than be stopped by my revenge?

OBI WOMAN. Son! thy impatience -- 

JACK. Impatience -- impatience, hag! The gods of my fathers frown my delay. Years have elapsed since I sacrificed the wife of the white man, a victim to the memory of my beloved Olinda, whom they tore lifeless from these arms as they dragged me from my native land; can I forget? can I forgive? Never. And long ere this should vengeance have been satisfied, had not a mistaken faith in thy mummery restrained my arm.

OBI WOMAN. Mummery! ha! sayst thou? Rail not on Obi, lest thou feel its power.

JACK. Power? thy power is in the fear of thy votaries -- and fear I know not. As Africa receded from my gaze I swore that the first white man who purchased Karfa's services should also feel his hate. Ormond was that man. The wife of his bosom was my first victim, and long ere this should his bones have been mouldering in the grave, but that you promised a sweeter, though a slower vengeance.

OBI WOMAN. And I will perform my promise; Ormond shall die. He but hovers round me for a time, as the fluttering bird struggles to avoid the fascinations of the serpent. But here have I his image made in wax, and as it is molten by a blue fire kindled with dead men's eyes, so shall he waste, waste, waste. (throws in coloured fire.)

JACK. In what time, pry' thee?

OBI WOMAN. Perchance a month.

JACK. A month! A day shall not elapse ere the blow be struck! 'Tis the anniversary of his daughter's birth -- 'tis the anniversary of that, when blasting their revelry, I struck my first strong blow against his peace. Now, 'tis the day on which he purposes to give his daughter's hand in marriage to her lover; and 'tis the day when, bursting like a whirlwind on him, I will sacrifice his every remaining joy to the memory of my broken-hearted wife, my helpless infants, and the wrongs of my poor country. (crosses to L.H. -- distant horns heard, as of sporting party.) Hark, hark! ere night those instruments shall sound a sadder note. Quick! Quick! (giving horn.) More of your charms, which in the eye of superstition make me invisible -- and let me to my work. (crosses to R.)

OBI WOMAN. Here, my son. (puts a handful of feathers into horn.) Yet be not rash, and trust that Obi -- 

JACK. Obi! Here is the charm I trust. (showing a dagger. -- Horns recommence.) No more, no more; they come. 

(JACK rushes out, and the OBI WOMAN resumes her seat. The music continues during change of scene.)

SCENE IV. -- A front wood.

(Music. -- ORMOND, ORFORD, TUCKEY, and SERVANTS, cross the stage, as on a shooting party. TUCKEY shows ORFORD game he has killed; ORFORD commends his skill; they then exeunt R.H. -- TUCKEY, elevated at his master's praise. A pause in the music -- JACK, L.H., follows them attentively, watching their motions, and expressing his desire of vengeance. Exits, R.H.)

SCENE V. -- A romantic, rocky view.

ORFORD and TUCKEY enter R.H.E., whilst JACK is observed watching them from the rocks.

ORFORD. 'Tis unfortunate that we have missed our companions, for how to regain the path I know not.

TUCKEY. Nor I either, massa; and I wish we were safe at home again. This is but a wild looking place, and they tell such stories of that three-fingered gentleman, Mr. Jack, that -- 

ORFORD. Fear not, my little man! fair play, and I warrant you, this "Mr. Jack," is but as other men. (horns R.H., at distance.) Hark! is not that our party? Haste to the summit of yonder hill and look around.

TUCKEY. And leave you here alone, massa?

ORFORD. Fear not, I will reload and prepare to pursue our sport. Do as I desire you.

(Music. -- TUCKEY, somewhat reluctantly obeys, and exits, R.H.1 E., whilst the CAPTAIN, preparing to load his fowling-piece, crosses to R.H., JACK now rushes upon him, wrests his gun from him, and severely wounds him with a dagger, ere he has time to call for aid. The CAPTAIN falls at JACK'S feet. -- Horns sound nearer. -- JACK looks cautiously and keenly off in the direction of the sound, and all around, then raising the body of ORFORD, bears it to his cave, and the scene closes on picture.)

SCENE VI. -- Inside of Quashee's hut.

(Enter QUASHEE, L. 1 E., followed by other SLAVES.)

QUASHEE. Haste, haste, my merry hearts. This night good buckra man give grand dance and much kous kous; 'cause Captain Orford makes himself all one with Missee Rosa; so run and tell merry Jonkanoo to get him big head on, and all dansa, dansa, like mad. (Exeunt SLAVES, L. 1 E.) Oh, it be sweet, when work a done, and poor black danse by moonlight, and his pretty black lady.

SONG. -- "Ackee, O!" (from "Paul and Virginia.")

When the moon shines o'er the deep,
Ackee, O! Ackee, O!
Whisker'd dons fall fast asleep,
Snoring fast asleep.
From their huts the negroes run,
Ackee, O! Ackee,O!
Full of frolic, full of fun,
Holyday to keep.

Till morn they dance the merry round,
To the fife and cymbal;
See so brisk, how they frisk,
Airy, gay, and nimble.
With gestures antic, joyous, frantic,
Dance the merry round,
Ting a ring ching -- ting a ring ching,
To the merry cymbal's sound.

Black lad whispers to black lass,
Ackee, O! Ackee, O!
Glances sly between them pass,
Of beating hearts to tell.
What tho' no blush can paint her cheek,
Ackee, O! Ackee O!
Well the eye can language speak
Of passion quite as well.

Till morn they dance, &c., &c., &c. (Exit L.1.E.)

SCENE VII. -- The Indian fete by moonlight. The Planter's house illuminated in the background. Lights half down. The NEGROES are assembled, some sing the following air, while JONKANOO performs a comic dance to it. NEGRO WOMEN are seated during the dance.

NEGRO GIRL.

We Negro men and women meet
And dance sing and eat,
With a yam foo-foo.
And when we come to Negro ball,
One funny big man be massa of all,
'Tis merry Jonkanoo.

QUASHEE.

Massa he poor negro treat,
Give grand ball and Jonkanoo.

CHORUS.

Massa he poor Negro treat, &c., &c.

(The sports continue for a time when suddenly the voice of ORMOND is heard without exclaiming, "Hold, hold!" The music assumes a hurried character, and ORMOND, from 3 E. R. H., rushes down the centre of the stage followed by the OVERSEER with drawn sword, and TUCKEY.)

ORMOND. No more of mirth and revelry -- no more of song and dance; but arm -- arm, my faithful followers, and aid your unhappy master to avenge the murder of Captain Orford.

QUASHEE, SAM, & ALL. Captain Orford murdered!

ORMOND. Ay! by that detested wretch, that blood-stained villain, Karfa!

NEGROES. Three-fingered Jack!

(Chord. -- NEGROES appear much alarmed as they pronounce his name.)

ORMOND. Can it be possible? do you draw back dismayed by the mere name of that detested monster? And yet poor Orford was the black man's friend. Oft at his intercession has the hand of punishment been stayed; and with my Rosa, often has he stood by the bed of sickness, and soothed the sorrows of the poor negro; yet now, subdued by vain and superstitious terrors, ye tremble to avenge the murder of your benfactor. For shame! for shame! Be men; and by one bold effort, let us rid ourselves of this detested wretch.

SONG and CHORUS.

OVERSEER.

Swear by the silver crescent of the night,
Beneath whose beams the negro breathes his prayer,
Swear by your fathers slaughtered in the fight,
By your dear native land and children swear,
Swear to pursue this traitor, and annoy him,
This Jack who daily works you harm,
With Obi and with magic charm,
Swear, swear you will destroy him!

CHORUS.

Kolli! kolli! kolli! we swear all!
We kill when we come near him.
But no swear loud, for if we bawl,
Three-fingered Jack will hear us.

(At the end of the Chorus, QUASHEE advances, leading his wife by one hand, and his child by the other.)

QUASHEE. (with great feeling) Massa! you have been kind massa to me; and Missee Rosa been kind missee to wife and pickaninny here, and I now show you black man's heart beat warm as white. I will go; and if I meet this Jack, Quashee will kill him, or him kill Quashee, only if poor nigger die, you take care of wife and little Massa Quashee.

SAM. Quashee! you long been my comrade at the work, and you shall not go to the fight alone. D -- n a heart, I go too. (extending his hand with emotion, QUASHEE grasps it earnestly.)

ORMOND. My gallant hearts, your courage shall not go unrewarded; and as the first proof of my bounty, no more my slaves -- be free! (NEGROES shout.) Fear not his wily strategems -- his magic art -- all will fail before the arm that's nerved by freedom and by gratitude. This night continue your feast; let not my sorrows taint the few moments you have of mirth. Nay, 'tis my command. To-night celebrate your new-found liberty, to-morrow for vengeance! (Exit R.H.)

SOLO and CHORUS.

NEGRO GIRL.

Nigger man go out to fight,
Heaven send him safe home back;
If by Sam and Quashee found,
Then good bye Three-fingered Jack.
Now we dance, sing, and eat,
With a yam, foo-foo, with a yam foo-foo.

CHORUS.

Now we dance, sing, and eat
With a yam foo-foo.

QUASHEE.

Jack have charm in Obi bag,
Tom cat foot, pig tail, duck beak.
Quashee tear the charm to rag,
Make Three-fingered Jack to squeak.
Now we dance, sing, and eat,
With a yam foo-foo, with a yam foo-foo.

CHORUS.

Now we dance, sing, and eat, &c.

(NEGROES shouting, dancing, &c., &c., and -- 

END OF ACT I.

SCENE I. -- An apartment in Ormond's house.

(Enter ORMOND, KITTY, and OVERSEER, R.H.)

ORMOND. What say you? My daughter fled, and you an accessory to her flight? Speak! what could lead her to such an act?

KITTY. From the accounts Tuckey has given her, she cannot believe that Captain Orford is dead: but rather thinks he is still a prisoner in the hands of Three-fingered Jack. She has therefore fled in disguise, hoping to overtake Quashee and Sam, and join their search in discovering the place of her lover's confinement. But, indeed, and indeed, I knew not the design until it was too late to prevent its execution.

ORMOND. Rash, unthinking girl! there wanted but this blow to complete my misery! yet must she not fall without one struggle to preserve her. Give orders that the servants arm themselves and follow to the mountains; I will lead them and rescue my unhappy child, or perish with her! (Exeunt, L.H.)

SCENE II -- A rocky pass in the mountains. Platforms &c. The entrance of a cave, 3 E.R.H.

(Enter QUASHEE and SAM, L.U.E. They advance, searching round R. and L., till they arrive in front, C. -- there shake hands and encourage each other -- separate -- QUASHEE searching up stage, R.H., and SAM back, L.H. Having advanced a few steps, the stage darkens, they look upwards, and storm descends. Thunder, lightning and rain. They creep behind rock pieces, R. and L. End of storm. Lights gradually rise. They pop up their heads and chatter to each other. Rise, come forward and congratulate on the cessation of the storm. Muster courage, and proceed in their search, crossing each other in front. A black head, (TUCKEY'S) suddenly rises above one of the rocks in centre, grinning at them. Both, horribly frightened, utter an exclamation, and retreat to front, at opposite corners. Pause; TUCKEY rises. They recognise him, laugh at their fears, shake hands, and are going off, R. H. QUASHEE pretends to see something -- starts.)

QUASHEE. Ah! what dat? (SAM and TUCKEY terrified.) Neber mind, Sam, is only my fun. (Exeunt, jeering at each other, R.1 E.)

(Enter JACK, L.U.E., on platform, watching them -- creeps down to R.1 E., looking after them, and using threatening gestures; hears a step behind him -- turns, and sees ROSA coming on, L.H. -- Hastily conceals himself, L. 2 E.)

(Enter ROSA, L., disguised as a boy; and evidently overcome by fatigue.)

ROSA. Vainly I pursue their track! worn with fatigue, I cannot overtake them; nor dare I raise my voice to call for aid, lest foes, not friends, might hear my cries. Yet, Orford, will I on; for hope still lingers in my breast, and whispers that thou art not dead!

(Storm again. Thunder and lightning -- stage quite dark, rain falls heavily.)

Alas! the very elements combine against me! Where shall I shelter till the storm be past? yon cave -- 'tis fearfully dark -- yet will I venture. Kind heaven, befriend me.

(Music. -- She enters with hesitation and trembling, JACK appears on the rocks behind, watching her motions, and as she enters the cave, R.3 E., he descends and follows her.)

 SCENE III. -- A rocky passage, leading to Jack's cave. First Grooves. Stage dark.

(Music. -- Enter ROSA, L.H., followed by JACK, at some distance.)

ROSA. I know not what impulse 'tis that leads me within this dreary cavern; yet twice methought a groan sounded faintly on my ear. Oh, Orford! should this be the abode of Karfa!

(turns suddenly round and sees JACK watching her. Screams violently and attempts to fly, but is seized by JACK.)

JACK. Why, how now, boy? Enter you my dwelling with bad intent that the presence of the owner thus alarms you?

ROSA. With no ill intent, I do assure you. I merely sought a shelter from the storm, that is over, accept this, (offering purse with her left hand.) -- this trifling recompense, and let me pass. (attempting to cross to L.H.)

JACK. What, to tell the white man you have discovered the abode of Karfa? No, no -- this cave you never quit with life.

ROSA. (falling on her knees.) Mercy, mercy!

JACK. Nay, fear nothing, boy; attempt not flight, and you are safe. Here you shall attend on my wants. Come, come, do not tremble so; you have doubtless heard of Karfa's cruelties; but know, it is not merely thirst of blood that fires me, -- a nobler passion nerves my arm -- vengeance!

ROSA. Vengeance! on whom?

JACK. On the planter, Ormond! Should he or any of his accursed race fall within my power, the most lingering torments nature can endure shall speak my hate! One blow is struck, and the nuptial song is changed to the lament of death.

ROSA. Good heavens!

JACK. Nay, fear not, I have promised you life, and Karfa's word is as his hate -- unalterable! Nor wilt thou be so lonely as perchance you think. You are not the only bird this trap encloses.

ROSA. (aside.) Merciful powers! then 'tis here that Orford -- 

JACK. Come, the night wears on, and I must show you all the splendour of my palace. Nay, nay, by your leave, I suffer not the eye of mortal to track the haunt where, like the tiger of his native deserts, Karfa crouches till fate places the victim in his grasp. 

(Music. -- KARFA blindfolds ROSA, and leads her further into the cavern, R.H. (Wait until JACK and ROSA are on steps, then change to -- )

SCENE IV. -- The interior of Jack's cave: Grated door, chain, key, and padlock, L.2 E., steps, ladder on platform, &c., all fit for business. Table, stools, &c., centre. Opening to cavern, and ladder to descend, L.C. Stage still dark.

(Music. -- JACK leads ROSA down the ladder; then removes ladder, and unties the handkerchief he had bound over Rosa's eyes. She looks fearfully around.)

 JACK. Behold you future residence. (she starts.) What? You like it not? The masonry is somewhat rugged, I confess; and the tangling weeds form but a sorry tapestry -- but it has one proud charm -- (takes down ladder.) security! Your white man, I am told, can soar into the air, fathom the deep, ransack the mine, and enslave in every clime where his accursed arts find access. Here, here alone, no white man finds an entrance, but as Karfa's slave.

ROSA. (aside.) To what have I reduced myself! but tis for Orford, and I will not fear -- could I discover where he is confined -- 

JACK. Come, come, no muttering. To work, to work. Trim yonder fire. (R.2 E.) Nay, pause not; obey me! the times have changed, and the white man must now labour for the black. 

(Music. -- ROSA timidly obeys the commands of JACK, and kindling the fire, places the kettle upon it. Meanwhile JACK produces a bottle of rum, and a large bowl, and directing ROSA to bring him the kettle, makes some punch, which he drinks.)

JACK. Well tended, boy; wilt taste? (ROSA declines.) well, then, thou know'st some ballad, I warrant me; so sing, and wile away the hours till dawn.

ROSA. (aside.) 'Tis fortunate! Orford may recognise my voice, and by some signal -- 

JACK. Heard'st thou my commands? Sing, boy! (ROSA sings the following ballad, accompanying herself on the guitar.)

SONG. -- ROSA

A lady in fair Seville city,
Who once fell in love very deep,
On her Spanish guitar played a ditty
That lulled her old guardian to sleep.
And she played on her Spanish guitar.
Hoo tiral lar, hoo tiral lira,
Hoo tiral lar, hoo tiral lira.
On her Spanish guitar played a ditty,
&c., &c.

The guardian, not given to dozing,
Was thought the most watchful of men;
But each strain had so sleepy a closing,
That he nodded -- but soon woke again.
And she played on her Spanish guitar.
Hoo tiral lar, hoo tiral lira.
&c., &c., &c.

(during the song, JACK drinks repeatedly, until over-powered, partly by the liquor, and partly by fatigue, he falls asleep.)

ROSA. He sleeps! Now, then, to commence my search. Orford, dear Orford, if a captive in this dreary den -- 

(a slight noise is heard -- and ORFORD, from behind a grated door, 2 E.L.H., is heard to exclaim -- 

ORFORD. Rosa -- beloved Rosa!

ROSA. (screams.) 'Tis he -- 'tis he!

(JACK suddenly awakes with the noise, and ROSA immediately proceeds with her ballad. JACK looks cautiously around; but observing nothing to create suspicion, merely says -- )

JACK. Oh -- ay! the song! right! right! -- sing away, boy -- but not so loud. (sleeps again -- a pause.)

ROSA. Again he sleeps. That door must lead to the dungeon of my Orford. Could I release him?

(Music. -- ROSA steals cautiously across the stage, and finding the key in the lock, opens door and discovers ORFORD chained to the rocks. As ROSA opens door, ORFORD -- his hands tied behind him, his face pale and bloody -- falls, as if from exhaustion, on the stage. ROSA starts, and dropping the key, awakens JACK, who jumps up, and rushing towards the door closes it, and levels a pistol at ROSA.)

JACK. Rash fool! thy life shall pay the forfeit of thy daring.

ROSA. Yet, sir, hear me: indeed I meant no harm -- but hearing a faint sound as if from one in pain, I -- 

JACK. I do misdoubt thee, boy: this is no place to make a parade of thy compassion. The shrieks of my dying victims must sound as music to thee -- or thine own must swell the chorus. Yon prisoner's life is doomed. By hunger he shall perish; whilst thou, as a fit punishment for thy curiosity, shall feast thy eyes with his expiring groans!

ROSA. For mercy!

JACK. No words! Obey -- or perish!

(Music. -- JACK binds ROSA to a rock, R.; then puts a padlock upon Orford's prison door, and hanging the key considerably out of reach, by help of ladder, (which he then lies down upon,) retires to sleep, twisting one end of Rosa's rope round his arm. ROSA, observing him, attempts to loosen the rope with her teeth -- but fails; she then draws (with her foot) the table close to her, and holding the rope over the wick burns it, and sets herself free -- fastening the end of the rope to the leg of the table.)

ROSA. Kind Heaven, I thank thee! (JACK stirs and tugs at the rope, which she has fastened to the table.) No, 'twas but my fancy. Could I procure the key.

(Music. -- She obtains the key by means of a long crooked stick, and carefully unlocking the padlock, opens the door. She removes Orford's chains, and he advances, evidently overpowered from the effects of his wound and want of food. She gives drink, and he says very faintly -- )

ORFORD. My dearest Rosa, by what means --  (JACK rolls off ladder.)

ROSA. HUSH! (whispering.) We have no time for explanation. The loss of a moment may be fatal. Aid me to raise the ladder to yon entrance.

(Music. -- ORFORD takes Jack's gun. They raise the ladder and place it against the rocks. ROSA insists upon ORFORD ascending first. He reluctantly consents; but when he gains the opening the ladder slips and falls. JACK starts up at the noise, seizes ROSA, and holding her before him, prevents ORFORD from firing at him; he then fires a pistol at ORFORD, who falls. -- Scene closes.)

SCENE V. -- Front wood -- lights up. March -- drum and fife. The OVERSEER enters bearing the proclamation, offering "500 pounds for the apprehension of Jack." He is followed by a crowd of NEGROES, and a party of SOLDIERS, L.H.

(Enter ORMOND, R.H.)

ORMOND. No trace -- is to be found! Alas! my child is in the villain's power, and his vengeance is satiated. Yet will I hope for the best. Various parties scour the woods, and -- but see, where Tuckey comes in haste!

(Enter TUCKEY, L.H.)

Now, boy, speak! Knowest thou of my child?

TUCKEY. Alas, sir, she is in the hands of Karfa. Guided by recent foot-marks, we traced the entrance of the villain's cave, and arrived in time to save my gallant master's life, who, wounded by a pistol shot, lay weltering in his blood.

ORMOND. But speak -- my daughter?

TUCKEY. Ere we could descend the cave, the villain had borne her through some private passage, and escaped. Quashee and Sam, are, however, at his heels, and he will be quick indeed if he escapes them.

ORMOND. Lead to the cave. The monster will not wander far from his accursed den; and I will double yon reward to him who restores my child to these fond arms, and drags the monster to the fate he merits.

(the NEGROES and SOLDIERS shout and follow ORMOND off, R.H.)

 SCENE VI. -- A wild and rocky dell. Stage half dark.

(Music. -- JACK hastily descends the rock, dragging ROSA after him, R.U.E.)

JACK. The pursuit is vain. In these wild glens, -- old nature's fortresses, which they fear to penetrate, I breathe again; and now, weak girl, the last moment of your life is come.

ROSA. You know me, then?

JACK. As Orford fell, one word escaped him -- 'twas joy, 'twas triumph! for it told me I had within my power the only child of the detested Ormond.

ROSA. Mercy, mercy!

JACK. You whites are ever ready to enforce for one another that civilized, that Christian law of mercy which our dusky children never yet partook of.

ROSA. Yet, for pity! Wreck not an aged father's hopes by the destruction of his child.

JACK. I had a daughter once; did they spare her harmless infancy? Where is my wife? was she spared to me? No! with blood and rapine the white man swept like a hurricane o'er our native village, and blasted every hope! Can aught efface the terrible remembrance from my soul, how at their lordly feet we begged for mercy and found it not? Our women knelt, our infants shrieked in vain, as the blood-stained murderer ranged from hut to hut, dragging the husband and the father from their homes, to sell them into bondage! No more, no more! the vext spirits of my wife and child hover o'er me like a holy curse, and claim this due revenge.

(Music. -- JACK raises his dagger, and is on the point of springing upon ROSA, when QUASHEE leaps from a projecting rock, and interposes.)

QUASHEE. Stand back, Massa Jack! this lady good missee, and me no see her hurt.

JACK. Slave!

QUASHEE. Me no slave! me free! me gentleman, me Mr. Quashee now, and no care a button for you or Obi either.

JACK. Fly, and leave the girl with me, or thy life -- 

QUASHEE. Me see you dam first, massa. Fly, Missee, to high rock, and tell Sam to come here and help cut him blackguard head off.

JACK. One step, and she dies.

(Music. -- ROSA flies to the rocks, and JACK springs after her. QUASHEE rushes between them, places himself upon guard, and stays JACK.)

QUASHEE. No hurry, Jack; all fair fight, and I'll bet my five fingers to your three I send you to your friend down stairs.

(Music. -- JACK and QUASHEE fight. QUASHEE is disarmed, and falls on R.H., JACK is upon the point of despatching him, when suddenly, SAM jumps from the rocks at the back, saying, "No you don't massa Jack." A desperate combat of three, and JACK is severely wounded. Ultimately they all lose their swords, and a struggle ensues, QUASHEE falls, JACK pushes SAM upon his body, and holding them both down, draws his dagger, and is about to stab, when TUCKEY (who has appeared at back with a blunderbuss, but cannot fire for fear of hurting his friends,) fires, and mortally wounds him, he falls -- SAM and QUASHEE recover their swords, and despatch him.)

QUASHEE. Oh! tank ye, Tuckey! just in time my man. 

(Shouts. ORMOND, ORFORD, ROSA, and the other CHARACTERS now enter, drawn thither by the noise of the shot. QUASHEE and SAM shake hands. They group behind JACK, who dies amidst the shouts of the SOLDIERS, and NEGROES -- Tableau and -- )

CURTAIN