MINOR; OR, THE FORESTERS OF NEPAUL.

CHAPTER I.

In one of those lonely valleys, which abound in the provinces of Nepaul, encircled by mountains and glittering with a variety of mineral productions, lived Minor, the heroine to the development of whose character and destinies the following pages are devoted. From the romantic habits in which she was wont to indulge, from her love of seclusion, and her attachment to the unfrequented paths of the' gloomy forest, she was called the "Spirit of the Woods." This disposition had probably been induced by the tales which she had heard in infancy, when character is frequently modified or determined by the influence of imagination and romance. But if what she then heard gave a bias to her mind, the things of which she afterwards became an eye-witness contributed to strengthen the impressions so early received. Every feature of the landscape surrounding her father's cottage was calculated to enliven and inflame the fancy, and enwrap the soul in the delicious bondage of a romantic dream. The beautiful and the vast, all that is luxuriant or sublime in natural scenery, encircled the dwelling of the susceptive and enthusiastic Minor.

Her predilection for the secluded labyrinth of the neighbouring woods, and the indifference with which she regarded the ordinary pursuits and pleasures of her equals in age, joined with the animation and sometimes wildness of look which her enthusiastic temper produced, had led many to infer that the intensity of her imagination had subverted or impaired the solidity of her intellect. When unobserved, or forgetful of the presence of others, the fervours of her excited mind would at times break forth into extravagant exclamations; and she would alternately sing, laugh, or weep, as her heart vibrated to the influences of her vivid fancy. But when in communication with her father or friends, the intelligence of her discourse, and kindness of her accents, seemed enriched by the sweetness of the voice in which they were spoken. Such was Minor in the days of her childhood. As she grew up, her beauty increased, and the peculiarity of her temper evinced neither change nor abatement: indeed time seemed to strengthen the romantic and sanguine disposition by which she had been distinguished in her earlier years; and neither interfering with the affairs of others, nor mingling in their pursuits, her days were mostly passed in retirement amidst the lonely beauties of nature, till she attained her sixteenth year, her intercourse with society scarcely extending beyond the most intimate friends of her father and brothers' acquaintance.

One morning, in the month of June, she was seen by the people of a neighbouring village entering the most dreary and inaccessible part of the adjacent wood; but this occasioned no surprise or inquiry, as her habits and ramblings were generally known. But when the noon repast was spread in her parents' cottage, Minor was not returned. Still every moment she was expected to appear; and thus the hours rolled on, until the shades of night began to succeed the mellowed radiance of evening. Her parents and brothers then became alarmed, and on inquiring in the village, no other intelligence could be obtained than that she had been seen to enter the wood in the direction which the villagers who had noticed her then described. It was at once resolved to seek her in the recesses of the forest; and her father and brothers, with about twenty of the villagers, having provided themselves with torches, commenced their dismal and dangerous search. The deep solitudes which they had to explore, were not only dreary from being obscured by the gloomy and impenetrable darkness, but were full of terror as the abodes of those ferocious animals whose time of prey is in the silent night.

The party had not proceeded far on their fearful errand, when they heard the appalling roar of the monsters of the wood. For some time, however, they continued their task; but at length, some overcome by fatigue, and others by fear, they gradually abandoned the pursuit, till all had returned but the devoted father and his son's, who determined to persevere in their endeavour to preserve the lovely Minor. They followed the devious footpath, which was frequently the track of wild beasts, and continued to advance for a considerable time without discovering the slightest trace of her whom they so anxiously sought. In this winding track no footsteps could be seen but those of the wild elephant, the lion, the tiger, or the wolf. Still, heedless of the dangers by which they were surrounded, they extended their search, till the dreadful rush of elephants towards them told them of their approaching and imminent peril. They all mounted the trees with the utmost celerity; and scarcely had they effected their ascent, when a whole troop of those animals appeared, and surrounded the trees in which the little party had sought refuge. The elephants, conscious and indignant, as it were, at this nocturnal intrusion, paraded under the trees, striking their prodigious trunks upon the earth, which seemed to resound with the violence of the shocks. Several of these sagacious hut enraged animals attempted to pull up the trees, while others sought to attack the fugitives with their elevated and extended trunks. Being foiled in their attempt, and their anger being abated by the violence of exertion, they contented themselves with running at the trunks of the trees which the party had ascended; and as the morning began to dawn, they retreated to their den, in a deep and grassy dell, about a quarter of a mile distant.

Disappointed and exhausted by their nocturnal adventures and fatigue, the distressed relatives of Minor returned home without any intelligence of the object of their search: and it was concluded by the whole village that she must have been destroyed by wild beasts, the part of the forest in which her father and brothers had had such a narrow escape being that to which she was seen, in the morning, directing her swift and eccentric steps. Day after day glided silently away, and no tidings of Minor being heard, her destruction among the beasts of the forest was considered as certain, and the sorrow of her family gradually settled into a deep and abiding melancholy. Her mother, to whom she had always been an object of the tenderest solicitude, was the first victim of unavailing grief; she pined, wasted, and at length expired. Her father, sinking beneath this additional weight of affliction, speedily followed. The brothers, one by one, left the village, or dropped into the grave, like the last leaves which, withered by the expiring breath of autumn, tremble and fall in the blast of winter: and, as time urged on its ceaseless course, the excitement caused by the disappearance of Minor, subsided in the village of Ettaundah. The cottage in which she and her kindred once resided had crumbled into ruins, but the memory of the unfortunate Minor was preserved by many a tale, invested with the circumstances of mystery and horror which superstition so easily suggests; and very generally, therefore, was it believed, that as her disappearance was so sudden, and her supposed end so awful, her disturbed spirit must occasionally visit the scenes of its former existence, and review those dangers by which its union with its frail partner, the body, had been so often threatened and at length destroyed.

It was indeed affirmed, that her shade was often seen gliding down the silvery brook, and through the lonely village, and engaged to all appearance in taking a mournful survey of the remains of the dilapidated cottage. These tales became so generally believed, that none would approach the mouldering abode of Minor. But one autumnal evening, some shepherds reported that they had seen a female, whose strange and bewildered looks gave her the aspect of insanity, peep from behind some neighbouring trees, and then plunge again into the wood in which Minor had disappeared. No sooner had this report been circulated than the utmost excitement prevailed: every door in the village was secured, and not a soul would venture out. Many, indeed, imagined that they heard the once loved tones of her well-known voice mingling in plaintive cadences with the midnight gale; and so strong was the impression with some, that the supposition of the visit of an apparition began to give way to the belief that Minor was returned in reality.

With the dawn of morning the courage of the villagers revived, and it was soon discovered that the report of the shepherds was not untrue. On a fragment of rock, overhanging the stream which flowed by her ruined habitation, a favourite seat in her younger days, Minor was indeed discovered. The first by whom she was seen was a former female acquaintance, who, terrified at her maniac appearance, rushed towards her home, exclaiming as she ran, that the ghost of Minor was hovering near the brook. Curiosity now overcame the fear of the villagers; they hastily issued from their cottages, and in a few moments surrounded the fragment of rock on which not a ghost, but the faded form of the once lovely Minor was reclining. There was a wild and vivid brilliance in her eyes, which seemed almost super-human, but her wonted smile was no longer seen, and she appeared anxious to shun the observation and evade the enquiries of those who flocked around her.

Eight years had passed since her first disappearance, and her preservation during that period, amidst the perils of an Indian forest, seemed extraordinary, nay, miraculous. How she could have escaped the prowling ferocity of wild beasts, or found the means of shelter and sustenance, the most pretending sagacity could not affect to conjecture. An event which created such astonishment in the minds of the villagers, was quickly, of course, communicated to the Rajah, whose enlightened humanity was both surprised and affected by the mournful history of poor Minor. He ordered that she should be prevented from again departing, and promised to give her extraordinary case an immediate investigation. She was accordingly treated with every attention by the affectionate friends of her younger days. After much entreaty and persuasion she was prevailed upon to take some refreshment; but the renovation of her bodily strength seemed to increase the agitation of her mind; and the fact of her insanity soon became evident, beyond the possibility of doubt, and every precaution was therefore adopted to preserve her from injury and prevent her escape.

On the following day the Rajah, accompanied by his own hakim, or physician, visited the abode in which Minor had been placed, and both were much affected with the wreck of such loveliness as they beheld. The doctor declared that her reason was indeed dreadfully shattered, and he also discovered that she had become the mother of a child. This announcement caused such astonishment to all who heard it, and added so much to the mystery of her disappearance and lengthened absence, and most unexpected return, that the Rajah gave immediate orders for a strong detachment of armed men to be held in readiness, for exploring the inmost recesses of those woods in which it was supposed that Minor had been the victim of abandoned villany; and many of the villagers volunteered to accompany him in his projected expedition, whose services were accepted. The Rajah was induced by many circumstances to direct that Minor should be taken along with , the party, as by observation of the effect which revisiting the woods might have on her mind, something might not improbably be elicited to furnish a clue to her extraordinary adventures. This suggestion was unanimously approved, and the greatest anxiety was evinced as to the result of the expedition.

The preliminary arrangements were completed on the third day following, and the party being ready to commence their perilous excursion, set forth, attended by the prayers of the villagers and of all the inhabitants of the valley for their success. They entered the wood, and having travelled about ten miles without discovering any thing extraordinary, at length arrived at a wild and sequestered glade, traversed by a path which seemed to wind round the base of some high hills. Which road to pursue they could not immediately determine; and, as usual in cases of perplexity, the ierac, or priest, who accompanied them, was referred to. After much consideration, he said, "Place the maniac here; her instinct will select the path which she may have been accustomed to visit." This was accordingly done; and on being allowed to descend from the elephant on which she had been carried, the apparently unconscious Minor turned 'along the descending path to the right; but the incautious guard having for a moment relinquished his hold, she bounded away like a deer, and set up a wild and terrifying cry; and had not a horseman been near, she would have escaped, and re-entered those wild abodes of nature, which she seemed to remember with all the extravagance of insane ecstacy. She was however soon overtaken, and again properly secured. They pursued this path for three miles further, discovering as they advanced wild elephants and beasts of prey, that fled and concealed themselves in the thicker parts of the forest. For the last quarter of a mile there had seemed to be a gradual declivity in the path by which they were advancing, and as they descended it became wider, and had an appearance of being frequently trodden. On observing this, the Rajah put his men in more military array. He had upwards of a hundred infantry, and ten small guns mounted on elephants. They now advanced slowly, and with that caution which the expectation of a hostile encounter inspires, and shortly came to a sudden turning of the path. Scouts were then pushed forward to reconnoitre, and to prevent any instant and unexpected aggression. They left the main body, and were soon lost in the windings and obscurities of the forest. In about half an hour they returned, and reported that, round the projection of an adjacent hill, they had seen some very wild looking people, who were armed with slings, with which they threw large balls of clay; and one of the exploring party exhibited a severe bruise which he had received from these missiles, when discovered by one of those wild inhabitants of the woods.

The Rajah then enquired what sort of an appearance their enemies had; when he was informed that they appeared to be covered with hair. He ordered Minor to be put in the rear, under a strong escort, and commanded the party to advance; but when they had arrived at the spot where the rangers of the wood were said to have been seen, not one could be discovered, and the Rajah attributed the report of the men to the influence of superstition or fear. While reprobating the supposed cowardice of his people, however, he was saluted with a volley of balls; and on turning to the quarter whence they were projected, discovered about fifty of the enemy on the top of the hill under which his party stood. A fire was immediately opened upon the hairy foresters: several fell, and the remainder retreated into the less accessible parts of the wood. The Rajah's party quickly ascended the hill, and, on examination, it was found that those who had been taken for human beings, were, in reality, creatures of the large rock baboon species. But when Minor beheld the wounded prisoners of the Rajah, she evinced the greatest anguish, and fell into such paroxysms of grief and indignation, that her hands were obliged to be secured to prevent her from committing some violence on her own person.

By the side of a stream that flowed at a short distance, a hut was discovered, built of mud and stones, thatched with pine leaves, and barely concealing the mouth of a dark cave in the rear. The entrance was through a square hole at the top, across which was a leathern thong, for the purpose of descent. Some of the Rajah's party immediately entered and explored this rude mansion, in which were found various skins of animals, some dried fish and fruits, and on a rude couch a sleeping infant, -- a girl, apparently four years old. This last discovery occasioned great surprise to those who had entered the hut. But when the child was sent up to the Rajah, immediately connecting the discovery with his hakim's assertion, that Minor had been a mother, he at once conjectured that this might be the child; but was apprehensive as to the effect which the sudden introduction of the child might produce on her already strongly agitated mind. After consulting the doctor and the priest, and making some preparatory indications to Minor, the child was brought forward. The effect was deeply impressive and affecting. She rushed towards it with the utmost eagerness, and the most transcendant delight flashed from her wild and rolling eye. The infant awoke, and its glance of recognition left no doubt that it was the daughter of the enraptured Minor. She threw her little arms round Minor's neck, and evinced every possible demonstration of delight. For a moment rationality seemed to be revived in the mind of the mother; for, with an enquiring and anxious look, she said to her daughter, "Kha hie Baub?" -- where is your father? The priest, seizing the opportunity, responded, "Who is her father?" Minor heard with displeasure, and said, "Chup, chup!" -- silence, silence! and held her finger to her lips.

But further enquiry was at that moment prevented, by a volley of balls which the regathered enemy sent among the party of the Rajah, which he instantly ordered his men not to return on their assailants, but merely to fire one of the great guns over their heads, as he doubted not that some mysterious connexion would be discovered between the maniac and these singular creatures. The explosion of the cannon was answered with a resounding roar from wild beasts, who were concealed in the deep shades of the surrounding forests, and in an instant afterwards the figure of a tall athletic man, dressed in skins, was seen peeping from behind a rock, near to the spot from which the Rajah's party had been attacked. He was called and beckoned by the Rajah's men; but his subjects of the forest seemed to have recovered from the panic created by the great gun, and disposed to attack or resistance. To prevent, if possible, the shedding of blood, the Rajah ordered the child to be held up. The man started, and came forward some paces; but when Minor was exhibited, he darted towards the party with the swiftness of lightning, and did not pause till he was prostrate on the earth before the Rajah. In him, indeed, appeared the husband of Minor, and the father of her child.

CHAPTER II.

It is beyond the power of language to describe the scene which followed; to the mind of the reader, therefore, it must be left to conceive the effect produced by this sudden and unexpected reunion of three beings, whose residence, whose very existence even, to that moment, was hidden from mortal vision amidst the rugged mountain steeps, the deep gloom of the jungle, or the solemn shade of the majestic trees of an Indian forest, and whose associates were the beasts before described, over whom Minor and her husband had acquired a singular and surprising command. In their remote and wild habitation, unrestrained by the laws or observation of man, with passions fervid as the vertical sun under which they breathed, their ebullitions of alternate joy and recollected woe were intense and distressing; but the poignancy of their feelings was at length assuaged by tears. In a scene so extraordinary, in circumstances so touching and romantic, the Rajah and his party had been more or less than human could they have remained unaffected; and they deeply sympathized with the beings into whose history they had now, in some degree, attained an insight.

"I never until now," said the Rajah, turning to the doctor, "I never until now had any idea that the heart of man could be so worked upon as mine seems to be at present, nor did I ever suppose that such a scene could be imagined, much less realized."

"It may, indeed," replied the priest, "be pronounced a scene of unutterable joy and grief; for these singular beings have been so long removed from the abodes and influence of man, and have lived under such peculiar circumstances in communion with their irrational associates, that their reasoning faculties seem suspended, and incapable of alleviating their present distress."

But while they were thus speaking, a hideous yell was heard, accompanied by a volley of clay balls, from the margin of a wood about a hundred yards from where the whole party stood. On hearing this well known shout, the Forester suddenly broke from his wife, bounded to a distance with surprising velocity, raised his sling, and was in the act of hurling a ball against the Rajah's party, when, as if electrified on again beholding his wife, his arm dropped lifeless by his side; and, putting his hands together in a supplicating manner, he exclaimed, "Mauff," -- pardon. Thus he stood till the Rajah approached him, and in the most soothing tone bade him be composed, and believe that he was in the presence of friends, who waited only to conduct him to a more suitable sphere and comfortable home.

"Yes, yes!" replied the Forester, as though intellectual consciousness and power were suddenly revived from previous torpor; "but I must first go and put stones on the grave of her child."

"Yes, yes!" responded Minor; "she was mine! I loved her, and she was mine!"

The Rajah having ascertained where the buried child thus alluded to lay, directed his party to the spot, which was near the mouth of the cave behind the enwooded cottage. On seeing the movement, however, the whole of the hairy troop attempted to oppose their advance, and had not the Forester exercised his authority, some mischief would have ensued; but his command prevented hostilities, and the party proceeded without molestation. At a short distance from the entrance of the cave was a small green plot, where there appeared to have been some earth newly turned up, which the Forester and Minor pointed out as the grave of their departed child. The Rajah perceiving that their feelings were much affected, ordered some of his men to roll a large stone over the new made tomb, and to plant round it some young saplings that grew near to the spot. The Forester looked steadfastly on at these operations; and when he beheld the grave of his infant thus distinguished in the midst of the deep surrounding solitude, a tear started in gratitude for the kindness of the strangers, whom he had so recently conceived to be his foes.

The daylight now was rapidly declining; the sombre shades of evening began to extend their dominion in the sky, and the trees and mountains were gradually becoming obscure in the increasing gloom. It was too late for the party to retrace their steps to Ettaundah; and they therefore determined to entrench themselves in their present situation. The work was soon effected, and large fires were kindled to prevent the attack of the intruders of the woods, Minor and her husband being carefully guarded. -- Throughout the night the roaring of wild beasts echoed through the forest. They frequently approached the fires: the Rajah's party then stood to their arms, but they remained unmolested.

The ensuing morning was one of those peculiarly calculated to soothe and tranquillize the troubled mind. The sun rose in all the majesty of eastern splendour; and his rays, reflected from the mountains, lighted up a scene on the aromatic woods below that was lovely and enchanting. The breezes were balmy and refreshing, and birds, early on the wing, filled with melody that lonely paradise. The hairy troop still guarded the entrance of the cave, and on the approach of any of the Rajah's party, seizing their balls and slings, prepared for the defence which their instincts led them to imagine necessary.

On Minor's awaking, her before wild and maniac features, which had been distorted by contending passions, had assumed a mild and placid aspect; but still there was a rapid and brilliant movement of the eye, a motion of the lip, which indicated that her mind had not recovered perfect and permanent serenity. Yet, when her still lovely eyes glanced over the features of her sleeping infant, calm contentment seemed to glow in her melancholy smile. When the Forester awoke, he looked for an instant on the objects of his solicitude, then seizing the child, and gazing upon it with a wild phrenzied rapture, he pressed it to his bosom, and, while delight beamed through his dark long eyelashes, returned it to its mother. His countenance then assumed a cold sullen look, his head dropped on his bosom, and he groaned bitterly, while the big tears rolled down his bronzed cheeks. Minor seemed apprehensive that something was wrong, for trembling like the palm leaf that shaded her pale cheek from the rising sun, she seized his hand, and gazed on him with the most tender affection: he raised his head, and meeting her look seemed tranquillized.

Every thing being now ready, the cavalcade was about to retrace the way homeward, when the Forester implored permission to take leave of his associates of the forest. This w as at first refused; but when he urged that they had been his protectors in this vale of danger, he was at length allowed to approach the cave. He entered it, followed by the whole troop, who seemed conscious of his intended departure. He returned shortly with a knapsack, a gun, and a sabre, followed by his subjects, over whom he seemed to have the most perfect controul, and with whom he exchanged signs in token of a parting salutation. The procession at length moved on, Minor and the Forester, with their child, in the front, well guarded, and a party of the Rajah's force keeping an eye on the troop who lingered about the rear, till arrived at the outskirts of the forest, when they returned in apathetic silence.

During the journey Minor and her husband were silent, but the workings of their bosoms were obvious to their guards. They drooped like beings about to be robbed for ever of their liberty, their souls seemed to linger round every wild shrub which they passed, and when they reached the extremity of the wood, they broke into tears, which appeared to afford them a timely relief from the anguish they had suffered. The party had now nearly reached their destination, and each moment, as they passed along, presented some object which seemed to strike the recollection of Minor. But when she passed the well known rock, seated on which she had so often mused upon those tales of fiction, that had given to her mind its early bias for solitude and romance, she sunk on the bosom of her companion, who, for the long period of ten years, had been estranged from the social intercourse of man, and associated with brutes in a wild forest of Nepaul. The return of the party was hailed with the utmost joy and gratulation by the villagers, and Minor and her husband were provided with a place of abode, amidst the scenes where she had passed the first years of her innocent and singular life.

On again beholding those old familiar objects which she had once held so dear, the full power of her reason and sympathy appeared to return. She pointed out, as objects of recollection, each scene of the events of her early life, and briefly, as she recalled them, detailed the leading incidents with which they were associated, to the being with whom she had become so fortuitously united. She dwelt on the past with the most touching pathos, and seemed to live over again the times which no longer existed, save in her remembrance. Her narrative filled the heart of the Forester with a tender and mournful interest, and seemed to bear back the current of his thoughts to a by-gone period of his own career. Though Minor no longer exhibited either that wild extravagance of emotion, or that feverish irritability peculiar to insanity, it was evident from her manner that her feelings, at all times elated, were now wound up to a painful pitch of intensity. In this frame of mind it was, that, her thoughts gliding quickly from object to object, as each successive change of locality recalled some long-forgotten passage of her happier days, a sudden turn in the road brought her unexpectedly in sight of the mouldering ruins of her father's cottage, which had gone to complete decay. She gazed on the spot with gasping eagerness but for a moment; then, with both hands pressing her temples, an ashy paleness overspreading her face, her whole frame apparently convulsed, the lustre of her eyes became suddenly quenched, and heaving one short throbbing sigh, she sunk lifeless in the Forester"s arms. For u time his eyes seemed riveted on the features of the departed Minor; he grasped her clammy and stiffening hand, pressed it to his ashy and trembling lips, and loudly called upon her name. From that moment all power of sense and animation seemed to forsake him; he clasped her lifeless form in a close embrace, from which he was afterwards compelled to be removed by force; but the kiss which he then stole from her faded lips, and the pressure which he had given to her icy hand, were the last, for his tongue never spoke again, nor were his eyes ever more unclosed, and the following morning he was numbered with the dead.

Two days afterwards the remains of both were committed to one grave. The whole village followed; and, after a little while, a stone was raised above their romantic and sequestered tomb, commemorative of their sad eventful story.

The Rajah undertook the care of the little orphan, directing that she should be called by the name of her hapless mother; and, beneath the fostering care of his kind and truly paternal protection, she grew in purity and loveliness, like the lily nourished by the genial warmth and refreshing dews of heaven. Rescued from a state in which her lot must have been utter barbarism, estrangement from the world, and exclusion from the means or possibility of improvement, she was reared in every accomplishment of the clime of which she afterwards became a brilliant and lovely ornament. Great care was taken, in her education, to prevent her from imbibing that spirit of romance and solitary musing, which had led her unfortunate mother into such wild vicissitudes, misery, and degradation. Those tales of glowing fiction, so frequently related to the young, and which often leave impressions fatal to future solidity or steadiness of character, were carefully prevented from reaching the ear of the infant Minor, while more useful instruction was judiciously administered, to develop and strengthen the native good feelings of the youthful heart. Her gratitude, as she became sensible of the obligations she owed to her benefactors, was fervent and abiding; and their benevolence met its due return, in the amiable conduct and thankfulness which its exercise had inspired. The excellence of her mental character was pourtrayed in corresponding external loveliness, which was thus described by the hakim who accompanied the expedition into the forest, and recorded by him in a MS. preserved in her family: -- 

"These hairs, blanched by the revolution of near a hundred years, shall not descend to the tomb without my recording the singular beauty of Minor. I have traversed the eastern hemisphere, and mixed in the splendours of Oriental pomp; I have seen the glitter of affluence, and viewed the scenes of humbler life; and I have beheld the lovely and young of every nation of the gorgeous East; but among them none would bear a comparison with the lovely Minor of Nepaul. Like the bright autumn moon, she was chaste and spotless, and radiant in beauty. Nature had rendered useless to her the adornments of art, nor was her person loaded with the baubles so profusely employed in Oriental decoration. Innocence beamed forth in every look and action, but simplicity in her was united with the easy elegance of nature. Her temper was sweetness and tranquillity; and those whom she admonished were softened by her tenderness, which emanated from a heart possessing, in the highest degree, all the sympathetic feelings of which humanity is susceptible. Her bosom was a nursery for all that is amiable and good, in which the noxious weeds of pride and arrogance had never been cultivated nor grown. Humility, inherent in her gentle nature, had been confirmed by the mournful history of her departed parents; and she felt that assumption was not only evil in itself, but in her would be out of character.

"Her first thought was to afford pleasure and benefit' to all, and especially to her benefactors, round whose hearts she was entwined in the tenderest regard. Her smiles animated their joys, or renovated their despondency. When she spoke, sweetness and modesty were combined with reason, and her brilliant mind often diffused its light amidst surrounding obscurity and gloom. But who shall describe her enchanting graces! She seemed like some celestial being, -- a friendly -visitant of earth, and not a native inhabitant thereof.

"Was it then surprising that her beauty and the amiability of her character became the theme of universal praise? She was unequalled both in personal charms and mental endowments; and many songs in celebration of her excellence, resounded through the lovely vallies of romantic Nepaul."

Such was the glowing description, penned by the hakim, of the lovely Minor.

The growth of his orphan charge to womanly maturity, naturally suggested her future prospects as an object of solicitude to the paternal mind of the Rajah, her protector; and the consciousness of his own approaching decline, augmented his anxiety to see her secured from the evils of dependence, by a suitable provision for her settlement in life. With this consideration the thoughts of Ummeer Singh Tappa were chiefly engrossed when, after she had completed her sixteenth year, he net out with his family on his annual pilgrimage to the temple of Ganesa, near Nilacantha, which is eight days' journey from Catmandoo, the capital of Nepaul; on which occasion he was joined, after an absence of several months, by his only son, who was about twenty years of age. Of this young man, whose name was Bheem Singh, the fondest hopes had once been conceived. In his infancy gentle and tractable -- in his boyhood, though ardent, kind and docile, affectionate, attentive and generous; by the progress he made in the acquirement of those branches of knowledge to which his attention was directed, by the instruction of those who had the charge of his education, he seemed to promise the realization of the wishes of those who prayed that the inheritance of his father's virtues and wisdom might descend to his successor, with that of his wealth, his power, and dignity. Latterly, however, these, noble expectations appeared to have been thwarted; and his gradual estrangement from the domestic circle, of which he had once been the joy and pride, was a painful source of grief and regret to the parental bosom of the Rajah. The excitement of the chace, or the corrupting influence of the companions with whom he associated, seemed to have altogether perverted his temper and disposition. When at home he was silent, reserved, and morose; and the periods of his absence, under the plea of hunting parties or distant excursions, increased in frequency, and were prolonged in duration, until his time and attention were reported to be wholly absorbed either in the sports of the field, to which the Nepaulese are much addicted, or in other more degrading and reprehensible pursuits. It was from one of these expeditions, which, from a series of novel and attractive incidents that occurred during several successive hunts of the tiger and other wild and ferocious tenants of those wide-spreading forests, leading him far beyond the boundaries of the kingdom of Nepaul, had been unusually protracted, that, with his retinue laden and enriched with a profusion of spoils won in many a fierce and bloody encounter with their savage game, and costly merchandize got in exchange for part of their booty in the various cities which they had visited, Bheem Singh had returned, to take part in the customary celebration of his family festival. The moody humour and hasty rudeness of manner, induced by the brutalizing tendency of the occupations in which he had been so much engaged of late, attracted, in a painful degree, the notice of his kind and observant parent at an early stage of their progress, by their striking contrast with the former placidity and gentleness of his demeanour. They soon, however, wore off; and, ere the procession attained the scene of their purposed devotions, the morbid irritability of his temper, which had given rise to much uneasiness, had subsided into a quiet and subdued melancholy. In the intervals of the various rites, the performance of which the ceremonial of the time and place enjoined, withdrawing from society he gave himself up to silent and solitary meditation. During the progress of the festival his dejection increased; his fits of abstraction became more frequent; a deeper sadness settled on his brow; the sinking of his spirits betrayed itself in his pallid cheek and the languor of his movements; and his health became visibly impaired by the workings of a mind diseased. The vigilant eye of parental affection had watched, with the fondest solicitude, the growth of this mental malady; and filled, at length, with apprehensions for the safety of his son, the anxious father determined to ascertain the hidden cause of his affliction, and prove the efficacy of friendly counsel and the suggestions of experienced wisdom, for his present relief and future recovery. With this view he sent to request his attendance in his presence -- a summons which was promptly and gladly obeyed by the son, who longed for the opportunity of unburdening his heart to a parent whom he had ever found a glad promoter of his joys and comforts, a sympathizing friend in his griefs and sufferings, a firm support in his trembles, and the most zealous and sagacious adviser in all his difficulties. Repairing immediately to his tent, Bheem Singh there found the venerable Rajah sitting alone, and, sensibly affected by the benignity of his greeting -- "Blessing on my child!" -- he returned the salute with scarcely subdued emotion, and occupied the seat prepared for him at the right-hand of his father, who, in mild and gentle accents, thus addressed him: -- 

"My only child, -- nay, only did I say? There is indeed another endeared to me by ties which, springing as they do from a mutual sense of dependence and protection, indulgent care and fond and heartfelt gratitude, are not less strongly entwined with my warmest affections than those with which thou art linked to me by nature; -- one not less distinguished by rare and excelling virtues and mental endowments, than by her surpassing loveliness and beauty of person, amidst the daughters of man!"

Agitated and confused by the rash of thoughts awakened in his mind, by this sudden reference to the object of his father's guardian care, the Rajah's son blushed and trembled beneath the violence of the effort required, for the suppression of feelings which, increasing in intensity as his father's eulogium proceeded, became at length almost two powerful to master. His strong emotion passed not unheeded by the Rajah, who calmly inquired -- 

"Do I interpret thy looks aright, my son, when I say that Minor is the cause of thy deep dejection and consuming grief?"

"Yes, my father," the young man answered in confusion, "perfectly aright!"

"And thou lovest her?" in a tone of solemn and impressive earnestness, asked the Rajah, pursuing his enquiry.

"I do, indeed," the son mournfully replied, "with an ardour of passion, which I feel can only be extinguished with my life itself."

"Then honour to Ganesa!" exclaimed the Rajah, with his arms joyfully encircling the neck of his son, "she is more dear to me than ever. And yet, with what pain have I long noticed your studied avoidance of her society; how many pangs have I endured from beholding the various and repeated symptoms of what I believed to be your indifference, if not antipathy, to that gentle, unassuming, guileless child of nature? -- To that and some lurking jealousy, perhaps, of the fondness with which your mother, as well as myself, thought it proper to meet what we regarded as her just claims upon our attention, have I attributed your frequent desertion of home and the company of your early friends, your altered manners, your relinquishment of pure enjoyments and ennobling studies, your newly-formed attachment to unworthy associates, and your eager indulgence in the coarse and boisterous pleasures of the chase."

"Never, my father, oh never," rejoined his son, "have I been able to view the lovely Minor with indifference. I must indeed confess, that I, at first, regarded her adoption with somewhat of a jealous feeling. The care bestowed upon her infancy, her dawning beauties, the sweetness of her disposition, the fondness which you and my dear mother constantly manifested, in receiving and returning her endearing caresses, -- these, for a time, caused me to dread in her a successful rival for my place in your affections. But her loveliness increasing with her advance in years, her graceful modesty, her clearness of understanding, her amiable simplicity of character, and the engaging frankness of her manners, have long since chased from my bosom every unworthy feeling, and kindled in my heart that holy warmth of attachment, that pure and glowing tenderness of esteem, that alone can sanctify the vows of wedded love. How sweet was the enjoyment, how rich the delight, how perfect the contentment of the days I passed in the cheerful hilarity and unrestrained endearments of our domestic intercourse, ere yet awakened to consciousness of the existence of a fatal bar to the realization of that dream of happiness, in the delusion of which I was so fondly indulging? How keen and withering was the blight of every hope that fell upon my heart from the moment of its discovery! Bitterness thenceforward mingled with the delight I had ever experienced in contemplating her charms; the pleasure formerly derived from her intelligent conversation was marred by racking doubts and apprehensions as to its permanency or future continuance, and in the stirring occupations of the chace, wildly pursuing the grim tiger and ferocious wolf, I sought to quell the tumultuous conflict of passions in my bosom, resulting from the alternations of hope and fear, engendered by that state of uncertainty from which I could only be relieved by a frank and explicit avowal to you of an attachment, that must as I thought give pain, which I would rather by any sacrifice have prevented, as your attention would thereby be forced upon a subject, the remembrance of which you seemed at all times studiously to shun, and at which even on the present occasion, my dear father, you have not so much as glanced."

"And what the nature of the subject is," said the Rajah, "to which my son alludes, I must pray him candidly to explain, for from me, at present, it is completely veiled in darkness and mystery."

"It has been told me," resumed the son, "that, lovely and accomplished as she is, our dear Minor is yet a child of the forest, whose father was a monster rather than a man."

"Then," replied the Rajah, "either ignorance has mistaken, or calumny misrepresented, the case to my son. Her father was indeed a man, formed by nature in a mould of the manliest beauty; though, like many other hapless children of humanity, through the unbridled licentiousness of his passions, he became an outcast from the society of his fellow men. The existence of such a notion as that which you have mentioned was not indeed unknown to me, nor had it, as you suppose, been dismissed from my thoughts without the fullest consideration."

"Then is my mind relieved," replied Bheem Singh, "from the weight of a burden, which its strength would not longer have enabled it to bear. I stood like one trembling on the brink of a precipice, unable to recede, and fearing that the next step taken in advance must plunge him into the chasm yawning frightfully at his feet. I returned from my late excursion to take my accustomed part in the observances of this our family festival, with a firm determination to use every endeavour to divert my affections from the object on which they had been so hopelessly fixed. Severe have been my struggles to accomplish the task that my sense of duty thus imposed; but vain was every effort, placed as I have been, in unavoidable daily and hourly communication with her whose unsullied excellence but increased the bitterness of the sacrifice to which I was doomed. My spirits bowed beneath the pressure to which they were thus unceasingly subjected; my health too began to fail, and my whole soul was about to sink into hopeless despondency, when the helping hand of a kind and vigilant parent and protector was extended for my relief."

A moment's pause which now ensued was of powerful effect in tranquillizing the mind of this ingenuous young man, who, in addition to the relief which his overburdened spirit found in the communication of those griefs which it had long desired to reveal, had derived, in this interview, much strengthening aid from the cheering influence of hopes revived.

Silence was at length broken, by the Rajah's inquiry of his son, if the inclinations of the object of his regard were in his favour or otherwise. To which the youth replied, that the peculiar circumstances in which he had hitherto been placed, being such as precluded him from the right of investigating that point, he could only refer to Minor herself for the answer to that question.

"Then shall it soon be ascertained," said the Rajah; and, casting on his son a look in which an expression of arch humour playfully blended with a smile of affectionate regard, he at once despatched an attendant 'whom he had summoned, with a request to Minor that she would immediately favour them with her presence.

In a few moments the orphan maid, serenely smiling in the unconscious loveliness of sweet simplicity and unaffected grace, entered the tent, led by Ghitana, the dignified and estimable wife of Ummeer Singh, at whose hands she had ever experienced all the considerate attention and unstudied kindness of a tender mother's fostering care. To relieve the mind of his son from the embarrassment which, from recent circumstances and in the present excitement of his feelings, the suddenness of this interview appeared likely to produce, and to afford him time and opportunity for regaining a proper degree of composure, the Rajah arose, and advancing to meet them, in a tone of mock gravity, half subdued by a playful humour, said,

"Having reached that period of life when the mind, revolving over experience of the past, delights in busying itself with attempts to search with prospective glances into the future, I have bethought me of withdrawing, for a time at least, from the distracting occupations of my rank and office, in order to devote myself more effectually to that deep study and profound research into the source and nature of the wonderful power which the celestial bodies are known to exert upon the affairs of men, through which I may become the better qualified, by tracing their future course from their past career to their present aspect, to guide by friendly counsel, to stimulate by needful encouragement, or to check by timely warning, my less instructed fellow mortals, as the apparent ascendancy of good or evil influences, in their horoscope, may seem occasionally to require. But ere I resolve upon a step of such importance, I have deemed it fitting to advise with you, my best beloved, my most dispassionate and trusty counsellors. How say you, then, my dearest Minor, am I, in your judgment, possessed of the requisite knowledge, skill, and discernment, for unravelling the wonders of the past, and disclosing the mysteries of futurity?"

"Truly," replied the smiling and yet incredulous Minor, "if I might presume to judge, I know of none whom a grave solemnity of aspect, which might be deemed the stamp of venerable wisdom drawn from the deepest sources of experience, and a look of sagacity that might be taken to denote strong powers of penetration derived from reflection, would mark as so well fitted for the imposing task of divination, did not a lurking glance of playful mischief, peeping from a corner of either eye, betray the meaning of the arch and hardly suppressed smile that plays around the lips already thrilling with the inspiration of the forthcoming oracular decree."

"Indeed!" said the Rajah, coolly turning to his wife, "and what may be your opinion?"

"Oh!" answered she, in a tone of the liveliest raillery, "my opinion perfectly accords with that of Minor. But when do you commence? We must have time to prepare your dress; for it will never do to let you go forth unequipped with the attire appropriate to your new calling."

"The inspiration of the prophet," said the still imperturbable Rajah, "is not from his features; nor is the wisdom of the seer in the fashion of his garment: the one proceeds from the influence of the celestial bodies; the other is drawn from the well of experience. Both may be doubted until their virtue shall have been tried. In order, therefore, to save myself the pain and mortification of a more serious and public failure, I have decided on making my first essay in the bosom of my own family, provided I be favoured with your permission."

An unanimous consent being promptly accorded the Rajah, deprecating the smile of incredulity that was still playing over her lovely countenance, thus proceeded: -- 

"Commencing with you, the most sceptical of my hearers, I now proceed to decipher the scroll of your fortunes. Your name is Minor, and you are the foster child of Ummeer Singh Tappa, Rajah of Nepaul."

With a deep drawn sigh, the lovely orphan let fall her veil, to hide the gush of tears that flooded her beauteous cheeks.

"Nay, I must not be interrupted," said the Rajah, gently smiling; "it is not my purpose to awaken painful recollections of the past, but to reveal the shrouded secrets of the present, and point to the probable development of the mysteries of the future. Know that, among the faithful followers of the prophet, worshipping in this place, is one who, deeply enamoured of your charms, harbours in fancied hopeless concealment an honourable passion, that consumes his strength and seemed to threaten us with a fatal issue; but, Allah be praised! the position of the heavenly bodies denotes an approaching benevolent conjunction, which, under high warranty, I interpret as prefigurative of a speedy meeting, to result in explanations that shall lead to your mutual happiness!"

"And who," said the blushing damsel, in a scarcely breathing whisper of surprise, "is the being to whom I am thus, unconsciously as unworthily, indebted? Have the stars, propitious only to this extent, withheld from the seer the power of describing him?"

In answer to this appeal, the Rajah, in a neatly turned apologue, faithfully epitomised the history and character of his son, and the rise, progress, and extremity of his passion, in the description of his altered mien, his pallid cheeks, his saddened brow, his feverish anxiety and perturbation of spirits, gradually approximating the actual appearance of his son, until the young man's interest in the issue of this appeal, augmenting painfully as it proceeded, drew him at length into a more prominent position in the party, when, suddenly suspending the tenour of his discourse, and pointing to where the anxious subject of his observations was then standing, he ended by saying "but -- behold the man!"

The eyes of the young people met for an instant, but were as suddenly turned towards the ground; while both were filled with unutterable confusion, particularly the blushing and astonished Minor, whose pure and guileless mind had never entertained even the most distant idea of the prospect which this unexpected disclosure opened to her view.

By way of relieving the parties from the painfulness of their present state of suspense, and dissipating the embarrassment which the continuance of silence could but augment, the benevolent and considerate Rajah, taking a hand of the passive and scarcely conscious Minor, resumed his address: -- '' Now tell me," Said he, "my child, what recompense are we to offer to this young man for the pain and uneasiness of which you, unknowingly, were the cause; for the long suffering which, notwithstanding the evidence of his altered appearance, I have culpably disregarded; and by what means are we to repair the ravages of a malady which, through our joint mis-observance, is now become too deep-seated for cure?"

"Alas!" replied the shrinking girl, "it was indeed unknowingly that I have been the cause of affliction to one from whom it would have been my delight, as it was my duty, by any sacrifice or exertion in my power, to avert even a moment's uneasiness; and oh! most gladly would I now embrace any means within my humble reach, that might be suggested as an atonement for any pain which I may have occasioned."

"Then take this hand," exclaimed the enraptured Bheem Singh, extending his right hand and advancing one step towards her; "accept it, dearest Minor, as a pledge of my ardent affection and the sincerity of my desire to devote my future life to the promotion of your welfare. Would you compensate me for past affliction, -- become the sharer of my wealth and fortune. Would you restore my peace of mind, -- be you the light of my home, the guerdon of my hopes. Would you secure my future happiness, -- be then the partner of my present felicity, and the partaker of my further destiny. These are means, completely within your power, of more than atoning for all that I have Buffered: for these I sue -- with these only can I be satisfied."

"Oh, spare me! -- in pity, spare me this excess of generosity!" faintly sobbed the gentle maid; "how low must I be sunk in my own esteem, and in the regard of those to whom I owe an incalculable debt of gratitude, were I for a moment capable of listening with encouragement to proposals which, in their result and in general estimation, however we may colour or disguise them to our own views, cannot but be deemed degrading to one so every way worthy of the rank in which he is placed -- so truly noble, in all but this ill-conceived attachment to the lowly object of his excellent parents' bounty -- the forest-born -- the offspring of an unknown and "Her speech was here cut short by the overpowering strength of the varied emotions to which this unlooked for manifestation of the tenderest affection on his part had given rise, involving as it did the most painful reference to the mysterious circumstances of her birth and parentage. Firmly had she struggled for the mastery of her feelings, but the effort was beyond her strength; and, exhausted by their violence, she sunk upon the bosom of Ghitana.

The prompt and judicious attentions of her surrounding friends having quickly succeeded in restoring to consciousness the intelligent but too sensitive Minor, the Rajah then interposed.

"What!" said he, "though the seedling was, indeed, transplanted from the wild glade of the forest, has it not been nurtured in the princely garden of Nepaul? And where, amongst its choicest flowers, is there one that can compare, either in the richness of its bloom or the sweetness and delicacy of its fragrance, with the beautiful exotic whom our culture has reclaimed? If we, to whom every particular of your history, which must not now be further dwelt on, is fully known, finding in you the virtues and accomplishments that adorn the highest rank, proclaim our glad and delighted approval of the alliance, wherefore should others regard it as a disparagement? "Who else shall pretend to any right of scrutiny or objection, unless, indeed, in your own mind you should discover some deep-rooted repugnance, some invincible disinclination, to an union so expressly formed to realize all our most fond and cherished wishes?"

"Sanctioned as it is by so kind and flattering an approval," answered the ingenuous girl, while modesty suffused her cheeks with blushes, "I were indeed unworthy, could I affect a moment's hesitation or concealment of the grateful feelings with which my heart is filled at the prospect of happiness thus held out to me, in an elevation so far above any to which my most exalted hopes could have been warranted in aspiring -- so -- "

"Say no more! say no more! There, take her, my son, with the favour of Allah and your parents' blessing," said the delighted and benevolent Rajah, placing the hand of Minor within that of his son, while the overjoyed heart of the mother found relief in tears as she folded them both in her fond embrace.

The ceremony of the formal betrothal was not long delayed, and twelve months afterwards their nuptials were solemnized with all the pomp and pageantry of eastern splendour. The season of her recovery from the forest was commemorated by Minor, in an annual visit to the native village of her unfortunate mother, the munificence of her husband's bounty rendering the occasion a complete festival to the inhabitants; and, to this day, the story of Minor is a theme of traditionary wonder and grateful recollection in the valley of Ettaundah, in the kingdom of Nepaul.

On the seventh yearly celebration of the wedding, the Rajah determined to impart to Minor the particulars of her father's history, as communicated by himself, in a manuscript which he brought with him from the forest when, on the discovery of his retreat, he was removed from the solitude in which he had so long concealed himself. The knapsack which, it will be remembered, we mentioned among the articles taken by the Forester from his hut, still remained in the Rajah's possession, and contained a bible and prayerbook much soiled and worn, in the former of which was written, "Jean Villency, Paris, 1764," together with his auto-biographical memoir, written on several fragments of pine leaf, in a reddish coloured ochreous pigment. The narrative appeared to have been continued by him down to the period of his deliverance, and its details will be found in the succeeding chapters of this tale.

CHAPTER III.

"my name is Jean Villency, and I am a native of France. My parents, who were affluent and respected, gave me an education suited to their circumstances, trusting, no doubt, that I should live a happy and useful life. But the vicious propensities of my nature were developed at an early period of my youth, and I became linked with beings who seemed to regard debauchery and crime as the principal business of life. My habits and associations at length estranged me from the parental roof. Urged on by the example of others, which strengthened the innate depravity of my own heart, I committed an offence that drew upon me the active pursuit of the officers of justice. I, however, eluded their search; and, having collected all the money I was able to scrape together, I bribed the captain of a ship, then weighing anchor for the East Indies, and was permitted to embark in the disguise and capacity of a common sailor. After a voyage of four months we arrived at Pondicherry, on the coast. of India; and the next day, having secreted such things, which I found on board the ship, as I thought would be useful to me, I absconded. My intention was to travel through the country, and enter the service of some of the native potentates, of those provinces where European treachery was the least known or suspected. I had stolen from the ship three watches and money to the amount of above a hundred dollars; and purchasing a suit of clothes from a native whom I overtook, I threw my own away: and thus equipped I commenced my journey. For some time I proceeded through the country without molestation. By diligent attention and practice I picked up a smattering of the Persian and Hindostanee languages, in which I was assisted by a Portuguese servant of the captain's, who had joined me in my wild and dangerous adventure. He shared in my toils and perils; from the latter of which we had many narrow escapes, being often attacked by robbers or furious beasts of prey. After wandering about for a considerable time, nearly barefoot, and jaded with fatigue and anxiety, we arrived at a fort called Aseerghur, where we were seized and detained as spies. Here we were compelled to grind corn; and for our labours, which were excessive and urged by every species of cruelty, were permitted to devour the refuse from the stones. Pinto, the Portuguese, rapidly sunk under the severity of the labour and anxiety of mind. He sickened, and shortly afterwards expired.

"I was much affected by the fate of my companion, both from the sufferings, mental and bodily, which he endured, and from the loss of the solace which his society had often afforded me in hours of melancholy. The depression of my spirits, consequent upon his loss, was greatly augmented by my being compelled to abandon as impracticable a project of escape which had long engaged my thoughts; and the energies which the excitement of my mind, while so occupied, had enabled me to exert, for want of that support, subsided into debility from exhaustion, and this infirmity was punished as indolence.

"One night, when the hour of rest drew nigh, with my body bruised and lacerated by the repeated chastisements, inflicted with more than usual severity, which the inadequacy of my strength to the various tasks assigned me had drawn upon me for imputed idleness during the day; my spirit enfeebled and broken by the state of abject misery and degradation to which I was reduced; I, for the first time, poured out my soul in prayer to that overruling Providence whose precepts I had trampled on, and whose authority I had despised, In the headlong career of licentiousness and vice which I had held during the days of my prosperity. Deriving some relief, in thought at least, from this heart-wrung effusion of penitent devotion, my griefs seemed somewhat lightened and my mind less ill at ease; and, stretching myself on the mat which served me for a bed, I was gradually sinking into a refreshing slumber, when I felt the soft pressure of a hand, lightly drawn across my face, and at the same time heard my name pronounced in a tremulous whisper by a female voice, which I recognized as that of Nina, the killehdar's niece, whom I had observed on several occasions to regard me with looks of commiseration and seeming kindness. Trembling from head to foot with the surprise which this unlooked for visit occasioned, I remained fixed to my mat, perplexed with doubts, whether good or evil were to be anticipated from the event. At length I ventured to breathe an inquiry as to her object in seeking me in my comfortless abode.

"'Hush, hush!' said she, 'I hear footsteps: I fear I have been watched; and should I be discovered, our doom is sealed for ever.'

"But the sound of the footsteps gradually receded, and at length died away in the distance. All was now quiet; and I again inquired what had led her to hazard this visit to the lowly cell of a slave. She had scarcely time to utter that she was come to set me free, when a gleam of torchlight flashed suddenly through one of the air-holes of the cell, and we heard, amidst the murmurs of a suppressed utterance, the ominous words -- 'he must be despatched!' My fate I considered to be now certain. Resistance was hopeless, and escape impossible. The sound of a cautiously-advancing step grew heavier and more distinct; the light moved round towards the door, and glared upon the rusty hinges; it was obscured by some intervening body, and gradually withdrew from my cell as those who bore it passed on to some other destination. It was some time before either of us was sufficiently recovered from the suffocating effects of the fright we had undergone, and the suppression of breath we had been forced to endure, to be able to speak. At length Nina, having observed the direction hi' Which the receding figures turned, said that they were gone to the dungeon of Moosooham Hari, who had assassinated his own child, and been unremitting in his endeavours to excite her uncle to cruelty against myself. I could not waste my regrets upon the fate of such a monster. I then inquired by what means she proposed to effect my escape from my present enthralment, expressing, at the same time, my grateful surprise at the interest taken in my sufferings by one so lovely in person and elevated in rank.

"'My uncle,' she replied, 'is going to-morrow to Boorhanpoor, where he will remain several days. He leaves me in charge of his household, and I have arranged every thing which will be required for your escape.'

"I declared, that liberty would become but a barren possession to me, if doomed to be separated for ever from one to whom I owed so much, and from whom I could not withhold my gratitude and tender regard. But the returning of footsteps compelled me to be silent, and reminded Nina that it was time to retreat She promised, as she withdrew, to see me again on the following night. She had scarcely quitted me a moment, when two soldiers entered my cell. I affected to be asleep. After passing the light before my eyes they retired; and I experienced no further disturbance during the remainder of the night.

"It will easily be imagined, however, that the visit of Nina had effectually dispelled all inclination to sleep. My mind was agitated by a thousand indefinable hopes and vague apprehensions. I doubted not that my liberty would be restored through her means; but when the certainty of that matter was determined, I felt a growing resolution not to quit the place without her, if any means of persuasion in my power could prevail upon her to accompany me in my flight That she had a strong regard for me I was vain enough to suppose; and I was sufficiently acquainted with the heart of woman, to know that she could easily be induced to follow whatever course its tender impulses might suggest. The idea of such an adventure flattered my vanity no less than it pleased my love of romantic enterprise; and I was further stimulated to the undertaking, by my ardent desire to prove the gratitude I felt to this amiable and devoted girl. Thus the gloomy hours of night were spent in revolving all which had occurred, or what fancy pictured as about to happen. The morning at length arrived, and the unusual bustle about the fort assured me that the killehdar was preparing for his intended excursion to Boorhanpoor. The shrill clangor of the trumpets, and the clashing of the cymbals, at length smote on the ear, proclaiming his departure. I longed for the approach of night and the appearance of her from whose lips I was to hear the plan of my proposed deliverance. With eagerness did I note the hollow sounding of the gong, as its successive strokes announced the tardy hours; and the intervals were passed by busy fancy, in sketching its bright, but, too often, illusive scenes of happiness and splendour yet in store.

"At length the appointed hour for her visit arrived. The gong had tolled half-past eleven, and its solemn echoes had expired in the adjacent valley, when the light step and suppressed voice of Nina saluted my ear. She entered the cell, and taking my hand, said that all was silent and propitious; the sentinels slumbering on their posts; and then, giving me a file, to cut through the fetters with which I was encumbered, while I was engaged in that anxious office, she announced her determination to be the partner of my flight. My spirits revived, and my exertions were redoubled by this intelligence, so entirely conformable to my most ardent wishes; and I soon effected my deliverance from the corroding chain, that so long had galled my limbs. I then arose from my recumbent posture; and, taking my hand, she bade me follow in silence the way she should lead. I complied as well as I was able; but, in my worn and feeble condition, I found considerable difficulty in moving with the celerity which our enterprise required. We had proceeded but a short distance when we heard something stirring near us, and, pausing to listen, quickly found we had alarmed a large watchdog, which immediately commenced a tremendous barking. The noise arousing the sentinels, we were repeatedly hailed with the demand of 'Who goes there?' To have answered would have involved instant discovery, and the consequent frustration of our project; we, therefore, concealed ourselves, and remained silent and unobserved till every thing was again quiet. We then resumed our course, and proceeded in safety till we approached the entrance of the fort, where the main-guard was posted. To descend in any other part the steep hill on which Aseerghur is situated would have been impossible; to gaze from its lofty summit on the valley beneath was enough to make one dizzy; but when I considered, that our escape could only be effected by the single rugged, craggy, and well-guarded path before us, my heart quailed within me, and the success of our attempt appeared altogether hopeless. Death, however, would be the certain consequence of detection. The case was desperate, and did not admit of hesitation or delay; and my resolution became doubly nerved by the recollection, that the fate of another, who had risked her own safety to effect my liberation from galling slavery, was impending on the issue. I grasped the hand of Nina, and we began to move forward, though the awful distance between us and the highway seemed to mock the perilous effort we were about to make. As we stepped lightly on, listening cautiously at almost every yard, in one of those pauses we heard a rustling, and, turning her ear to the quarter whence the sound proceeded, Nina, at length, gently whispered,' Is that you, Peer Mahomed?'

"'Hush!' said the suppressed voice of a man, whose head now appeared above a dismounted gun; 'hush! the rounds are out, and are gone towards the cell of Villency!'

"'If a moment is lost,' said Nina, 'we shall be discovered; haste, Villency -- fly instantly to your cell -- hide your broken fetters, and feign yourself asleep.'

"I quickly withdrew my trembling hand from her's, and stealing softly, but swiftly, towards the cell which I had so recently quitted, succeeded in gaining it before the arrival of the guard. T was quickly extended on my mat, and to all appearance in a sound sleep; the necessity of assuming an air of indifference to every thing calculated to excite suspicion being strongly impressed upon my understanding. On entering the cell, one of the party, passing a light across my face, exclaimed that I was safe enough; but another, rousing me with a kick, inquired whether it was me that they had heard singing: to which I made answer, 'that crying was a much more likely noise for a worn out and manacled slave; but set me at liberty,' continued I, 'and you shall have as many songs as you please.' I had no sooner uttered these words than I began to repent, for I perceived that the guard were disposed to linger in my cell; and, to my terror and astonishment, the officer ordered his men to knock off my fetters, that I might gratify them with the proposed song. My legs were immediately seized; and my feet being raised, the chains fell on the floor with an appalling clank. The officer and his men regarded me with looks of stern surprise; and I was ordered to be severely chastised on the spot for replying, to the question how my chains had been removed, that I had gnawed them asunder. I promised to reveal the whole of the circumstances, if they would suspend the infliction of the terrible punishment that I was receiving; which was at length acceded to, a soldier having in the mean time been dispatched to inform the deputy killehdar of the discovery. When that officer arrived, my proposal to confess was communicated to him; and, drawing his sword, he warned me, that if I dared to tell him a falsehood, that moment should be my last. It immediately occurred to me, that I had better attempt to enlist the superstition of the audience in my favour; and, adapting my manner to the determination thus instantaneously formed, I said that the story was long, and that they had therefore better be seated. They accordingly squatted in a circle around me; and addressing myself to the deputy, with the utmost gravity, I told him my chains had been removed by supernatural agency. This declaration was received with the deepest attention; but the deputy, after a moment's pause, asked to see the fetters; and, having examined them, remarked, that he never knew before, that the invisible beings of another world employed files. I interrupted him by saying, that those persons varied much in their mode of operation in different parts; and that, although the instrument used might be of the ordinary description, still the agent by whom it was applied might be supernatural and unseen. This answer seemed at once to put an end to his scepticism, and I was ordered to proceed.

"But, to render this part of my narrative intelligible to those into whose hands this history may fall, I must here relate a circumstance which had previously occurred. During the period of my confinement in that fortress, there had been imprisoned under the same roof a Hindoo, once a favourite of the killehdar, but who was condemned to incarceration for life, for some act of gallantry to one of his master's concubines. This fellow, whose merry spirit imprisonment could not subdue, had been a frequent companion of mine since the death of the Portuguese, Pinto. One winter's night, when he was in my cell, and nothing was heard but the measured steps of the sentries and the bark of the pariah dog, I closed my eyes in slumber, the Hindoo, Ram Mohun, lying near me in a deep and sonorous sleep. Suddenly I was awakened, and heard words that struck me with surprise and horror. A voice, apparently in earnest converse with another, exclaimed in a hollow tone, 'This is the spot where he is chained. Fire the mine, and blow the white-faced fiend to his own country.' In my fright, I endeavoured to find my companion, and, rushing towards the place where I thought he lay, I stumbled, and the same terrific voice again exclaimed,' Seize him, seize him, he attempts to fly!' I stumbled again, and fell, and the noise I made appeared to waken Ram Mohun, who inquired what was the matter. I was surprised that he had not heard what had so appalled me; but he said I had been dreaming, and again composed himself in a deep slumber. The voices, however, had ceased, and I began to imagine that I had been deceived by my own heated fancy. I was striving to forget myself in sleep, when a mellifluous voice, which seemed floating in the air, sung the following couplet: -- 

'Why disturb the wearied slave,
'Ye restless fiends of night!'

"The soft cadence had nearly died away, when, in deep harsh tones, the dreadful response was sounded: -- 

'We'll make this cell his grave
'Ere morning spreads its light!'

"My spirits, enfeebled by bodily debility and the constant anxiety I had long endured, now began to give way to superstitious fears, and the state of horror in which T now found myself may be well imagined. Again I appealed to the Hindoo; but he protested that he had heard nothing, and begged me not again to disturb him. 'But,' said I, 'do you not hear something?' -- for scarcely had he done speaking, when the same mellow voice thus recommenced its strain: -- 

'I am near thee, thou slave,
'With my magic cup!'

"And the former deep opposing voice again thundered forth: -- 

'And I am here to dig his grave,
'And darkly fill it up!'

"The Hindoo acknowledged that he had heard these last two couplets, and seemed much alarmed; for my own part I was stupified with surprise and consternation. But again the sounds were renewed, and the following words were audible: -- 

'Disperse, ye fiends of night,
'I'll provide him well!
'Go, go, your faggots light,
'He'll sup with us in hell.'

I had scarcely time to collect my wandering senses when several voices exclaimed, 'come! come! come!' and I felt myself roughly seized by some invisible power. I stretched out my hands to the part by which I was held, and clenched my fingers on something cold and hard, which I squeezed with all my force, determined to shew no mercy to my deadly assailants; but, judge of my astonishment, when my gripe produced a groan and a supplication from Ram Mohun to let him go. He then told me that it 'was he who had played me the trick, by means of ventriloquism; and ho soon convinced me of the truth of his assertion. He had, he now confessed, got me into disgrace by mimicking my voice and abusing the guards. By way of atonement for the fright be had caused me, I made him promise to instruct me in his art; and before his death, which happened a short time previous to my attempt at escape, I had, under his tuition, acquired great proficiency, and used frequently to amuse him with my exertions in that way.

"But, to return to my narrative. I addressed the deputy killehdar and soldiers, and said,' You must bear in mind that I am about to speak of a supernatural agency, the existence and power of which are known to us all. That the spirits of the departed revisit the earth, and occasionally make their appearance known to individuals, has been believed by mankind in every age, country, and condition; and it is equally certain that the good spirits belonging to another world, have been frequently allowed to change the destiny of mortals in this. Have you never thought you beheld appearances which could only have been produced by supernatural power, or believed you felt yourself swayed by impulses proceeding from an invisible agency?' I could perceive that this appeal to their own superstitious fancies was not without its effect.

"'But how,' said the killehdar, 'did the miraculous agent break your chains?'

"'Allow me to explain,' I answered. 'Distracted at my long confinement, and suffering from bodily disease and ill treatment, I, three nights ago, yielded myself up to despondency. My gloomy feelings were increased by the darkness of the midnight, and the hollow rolling of the distant thunder. At last sleep came to veil my sufferings in temporary oblivion. Suddenly I beheld a brilliant light. A spirit, arrayed- in white, appeared to descend through the roof, and I heard a voice exclaim, 'Thy bonds are loose!' I awoke with the sense of exquisite delight, but found my dungeon enveloped in its usual darkness, and my fetters fast and cold as ever. Still was there a strong impression remaining on my mind, of the vision I had seen. The succeeding night the visit of the airy messenger was repeated; and as it vanished, I heard these additional words: -- 

'Rely on me,
And thou art free.'

"'Again I awoke; and, as before, to disappointment. Night once more returned, and the remembrance of what I had before experienced was fresh upon my mind. I composed myself to sleep, in which I must have lain some time, when the vision again appeared, the spirit descended, and the voice exclaimed: -- 

'Arise, and see;
'I've made thee free.'

"'A broad glare of light now enveloped the figure, which appeared blooming in all the radiance and freshness of youthful beauty. Entranced with delight at what I beheld, my faculties seemed incapable of any thing but rapture; and in this state was I found and awakened by the visit of the nightly guard; whose astonishment did not exceed my own, on finding that my chains were cut through, and that I was indeed comparatively in a state of freedom. Such is the simple statement which I have to make, while I cannot conceal my belief in the reality of the vision which I thus seemed to have beheld.'

"My statement was not without its effect. But the deputy still seemed incredulous; and, 'to make every thing sure,' as he expressed it, he ordered my irons to be replaced and new riveted. As this operation was on the point of being carried into effect, I resolved to essay my ventriloquial powers; and, in a smooth but decided tone, exclaimed, as from a distance,

'He relied on me,
'And he shall be free!'

"The whole party heard, and stared around them in astonishment and consternation. They said this confirmed my statement; and the chains, which had been brought to restrain my limbs once more, were dropped to the ground. The unrelenting deputy, however, insisted on their being replaced. I then warned him against provoking the indignation of an invisible power; but he appeared not to heed me, and again repeated his command that I should be chained, when I thundered forth in a voice that seemed to come from under his feet -- 'Forbear! Look to the terrors which now assail thine own house! Begone!' -- The deputy and all present were struck with terror and overwhelmed with confusion; and for a final effort, tasking my powers to the uttermost, I produced a din as horrible in effect as if a herd of wild beasts had been roaring under and around the cell. The guard rushed out, followed by the deputy, while I bellowed after the latter, 'Beware! beware! look to your own Zenannah!' and, with the utmost speed that terror could urge him to, he hastened home.

"I lost not a moment in availing myself of the present opportunity. The whole force in the fort had rushed to the residence of the deputy, and I bent my steps swiftly towards the gate, which was now left unguarded in the general consternation. Here I met Peer Mahomed, whom Nina, hearing of my proceedings and the effect they had produced, had commanded to aid me in my flight. He hastily put a purse into my hands, and bade me use my utmost speed to reach Saugur, and there await a further communication from Nina. He pointed to the horse of a messenger who had just arrived, and told me to ride him as far as possible that night; to avoid the high roads, and keep my way through the forests. I obeyed. Following his advice, by the next morning I had travelled forty miles without experiencing any molestation. My spirits seemed renovated, by the consciousness of the galling yoke of slavery being now removed from my neck, and the prospect of enjoying freedom once more restored. On examination, I found my purse to contain forty gold mohurs and a diamond ring of considerable value. The money and the ring I secured in my waistbelt, and then continued my journey; and, stopping only to rest and bait my horse at a small village, in the evening I reached the little hill fort of Ratghur, and took up my quarters for the night in a village on the bank of the river which winds round the works. Here, however, I had not been long, when some soldiers belonging to the garrison, having heard of my arrival, came to inquire who I was, and whither I was going. I informed them that I was a stranger, proceeding to Saugur to visit some friends; and, as I was in the direct track, they retired apparently satisfied. I now began to imagine myself tolerably safe. I had attained a considerable distance from the scene of my captivity, and I fancied that my late jailers would not think it worth while to continue the pursuit of me to any great extent.

"But the party had not long returned to the fort, when two horsemen dismounted in the village. Their manner, and the evidently eager inquiry they began to make, soon led me to suspect that they were in pursuit of some one; and, without hesitating a moment as to what I had better do, I jumped on my horse, and rode off at a gallop, and had not proceeded more than two hundred yards when I perceived them remounted and pursuing me at full speed. My horse being refreshed, I increased my distance rapidly; and soon had the satisfaction of finding myself out of hearing of the sound of their horses' hoofs. The road which I now travelled was dreary, and lay through the deep bed of a river, the banks of which, being thickly lined with trees, I imagined to be the shelter of ferocious animals. But danger from wild beasts seeming to me less formidable than what I had to apprehend from the pursuit of men, I thought it adviseable to avoid the high road, and accordingly I struck off through a sequestered route, by which I shortly arrived at Seronge. This was a large town, full of Pindarees, in the suburbs of which I took up my quarters; and, having passed the remainder of the night in safety, I started early the next morning. To avoid the observation of four horsemen, whom I discovered from an eminence moving rapidly along the main road leading to Saugur, whose appearance struck me as dangerous, I again turned off into a by-way. I had not, however, advanced more than five miles, when I was surrounded by a party of Pindarees, the leader of whom inquired whether I was one of their community. I foolishly answered in the negative; upon which I was immediately thrown on the ground, and plundered of all my little property excepting the ring, which fortunately escaped notice in their rude and hasty search. I resisted at first; but to have persevered in so doing would have been madness, and led to certain death: wherefore, yielding to that which was beyond my power to prevent, with a view to conciliate those into whose hands I had fallen, I attempted to move their sympathies,saying that, as they had deprived me of my money, they had better at once put an end to my life, at the same time throwing open my bosom. They immediately observed the whiteness of my skin, and exclaimed that I was an European spy. I acknowledged that I was an European, but protested that I was no spy. They all, however, dismounted; and having placed me in the midst of them, the chief said that, if I would tell them honestly what I was, they might be induced to serve, instead of hurting me. I replied, that no man was ever disposed to conceal his misfortunes, when he met with persons who were ready to sympathize with his distress; and then I proceeded to commence my story. When I related my adventure with Nina, and the difficulties of my escape, they all appeared highly interested, frequently exclaiming with delight, vava gee! vava gee! (wonderful! wonderful!) The chief, after having listened to my narration, said that I should be a useful man to their party, and inquired whether I had any objection to join them and share in their fortunes, I closed with his proposition, and was immediately reinstated in the possession of my horse.

CHAPTER IV.

"When I joined in conversation with my new comrades, they expressed themselves much pleased with my knowledge of the Hindostanee and Mahratta languages. They returned me a portion of my money, testified the liveliest interest in my welfare, and declared their readiness to assist me in obtaining possession of Nina. They told me that the whole durrah (camp) of the Pindarees were deadly enemies to the killehdar of Aseerghur: a piece of intelligence highly agreeable to one who, from being a short time before a wandering, unprotected outcast, thus found himself not only secure from immediate danger, but presented with a chance of recovering what he most longed to possess; for I must confess, that my affection for Nina was most ardent and sincere. We halted for the night at a small village, about twenty miles distant from their encampment, to which they proposed proceeding on the following day, if nothing should occur to prevent it.

"Reader, although I had heard tales of the Pindarees well calculated to alarm me, I confess that I felt elated with my newly-acquired independence. I rejoiced in the thought that I was free from the yoke of slavery: and, if I felt at all uneasy, it was on account of her whose life I feared would be endangered, should any suspicion arise of her having aided in my escape. I felt deeply for her perilous situation; and it was therefore not surprising that I should become attached to those who promised to aid me, in rescuing her from the danger impending over her, and placing her in safety under my own protection. There was, indeed, a cheerful hilarity about the Pindarees, which nothing seemed able to disturb or suspend. They had abundance of good cheer, and, stimulated by the exhilarating draughts with which they regaled me, I described in glowing colours the beauties of Nina. I, however, soon found cause to regret my communicativeness; for I could perceive that the warmth of my rapturous effusions had kindled in them an impetuous desire to behold the charms which were the theme of such glowing panegyric. They resolved upon a visit to the fort of Aseerghur without further delay; and, starting on the following morning, the evening of the second day brought us within a few miles of the intended object of attack.

"The parting rays of the setting 8un were shining upon the grey summit of Aseerghur, and we were taking up the ground which we were to occupy for the night, while arranging the best mode of proceeding, when we descried two figures on horseback, approaching us at a hard gallop from the direction of the fort. As they drew near, we discovered a dusky cloud spread over the declivity of the road, obscuring but not concealing, the indistinct outlines of several mounted men. I instantly concluded that Nina was now making her attempt at escape, as she had proposed doing, when the bustle caused by my flight should have had time to subside: not a moment therefore was to be lost. I communicated my suspicion to the Pindarees, who immediately formed in a thicket on one side of the road, arranging that Nina and her attendant, Peer Mahomed, should be allowed to pass our party, which was then to wheel' up and charge the pursuers, while I was to be left to look after Nina and Peer Mahomed. The latter now swept by the thicket in which we were concealed; and at that instant the Pindarees rushing forward, charged the party which followed them, while with equal quickness I gained the side of Nina. The time not serving for lengthened explanation, I hastily informed her who were the friends that had intercepted the pursuit, and were then in sharp conflict near the bottom of the hill, and out of sight. On learning that they were Pindarees, Peer Mahomed exclaimed, that they were the most coldblooded miscreants on the earth, and that, if we suffered them to join us, Nina would be abused, and myself with him murdered. Nina being of the same opinion, we started at full speed, and did not halt until long after night had completely veiled us from the view of man. We at length arrived at a lonely village, remote from the main road, where it was necessary to pull up in order to refresh ourselves and our horses: and during our brief halt, I learned from Nina the cause of her singular and unexpected interposition in my behalf.

"'Villency,' said she,'from the first day of your arrest, when I found that there was no evidence of your being a spy, or of any other offence on your part but that of misfortune, I became strongly interested in your fate. I saw you imprisoned in a strange land, far from those you loved, and involved in hopeless misery by falling into the power of my uncle. I endeavoured by the most earnest persuasion to influce him to restore you to liberty. Your confinement I represented as unjust, for you had not forfeited your liberty by the chance of war, nor by the commission of any crime. My intercession. though prompted by no other known feeling than justice and benevolence to an oppressed stranger, seemed but to irritate the savage to whom it was addressed; and he seemed to delight in adding to those sufferings which I sought to abate. Day after day did I renew my request; till at length he became so exasperated by my importunity, that, in a paroxysm of rage, he declared that, if I ever again mentioned your name, that moment should be your last. I too well knew the ferocity of his nature to doubt the fulfilment of his deadly promise; but my determination to effect your liberation was thereby stimulated, not destroyed; and I resolved to achieve it, even at the hazard of my life, in which perilous project my brother (for such in reality is Peer Mahomed,) readily joined. Tired of the grinding tyranny under which we have both long suffered, we resolved, if possible, to secure our freedom with your's. Our fates are now united; and henceforth we will both submit ourselves to your guidance.'

"Peer Mahomed joined in the concluding proposition of Nina, but reminded us that we had tarried at that village long enough, and that, to be secure, we must proceed on our course. We accordingly mounted, and pushed forward with the utmost expedition in our power. During the succeeding day's journey, I applied myself by every means in my power to improve and strengthen the good opinion which she was evidently desirous of entertaining towards me; and at length took occasion to make a declaration of fervent regard, which I had the satisfaction of finding her not indisposed to receive and return with tenderness and sincerity. We continued to proceed at the most rapid rate during the day, the disguises effectually divesting our appearance of every thing calculated to excite the suspicious notice of such travellers as we met or overtook; and nothing occurring to interrupt our progress, we arrived at nightfall at a small village, about two miles from the main road, where we proposed resting for the night. To avoid surprise, we halted at some distance, before entering it, and I went forward alone, leaving Nina and her brother in charge of the horses. This precautionary measure proved to have been fortunately adopted, for I found that the news of our escape had preceded us. I determined, therefore, only to procure a few articles of necessity, and to continue our journey during the night. While I was waiting to complete my purchases, a person entered the bazaar, and asked the woman with whom I was dealing, whether she had heard the news; and, on her answering in the negative, he told her that ten thousand rupees were offered for the apprehension of the christian slave who had run off with the niece of the killehdar of Aseerghur.

He then described the persons and dresses of the fugitives, according to the notices which had been given, and ended by saying he wished he knew what road they had taken, as he had ten horsemen ready for the pursuit, and should immediately send them out to scour the country round. When he had departed I inquired who be was; and the woman informed me that he was the tannahdar, or chief of the police. Having procured what I wanted, I proffered a gold mohur in payment, at which the woman seemed a little surprised, and said she must go out and get change; and, expressing some chagrin at the delay, I departed, saying I would call again for the balance.

"Returning with the utmost expedition, I informed my two companions of the critical position in which we stood. We instantly mounted, and riding all night, till the approach of the morning's light admonished us of the expediency of diverging from the high road, we then penetrated into the recesses of a deep wood, and by the side of a gentle running stream we determined to recruit ourselves with a little refreshment and repose. Our stock of provisions and forage was here exhausted, and it was absolutely necessary to replenish them ere we could think of setting forward. Peer Mahomed undertook this time the expedition to procure the needful supply; and, to strengthen his disguise, he was equipped as a mendicant, and his features darkened with a vegetable dye, so that, when his preparations were completed, we could hardly believe that he was (he same person. The smoke that was rising above the trees, into the clear expanse of the heavens, indicated the situation of a not far distant village, towards which he bent his course. It was long ere he could procure what be required; and, indeed, he was on the point of giving up the hope of success, when he was directed to a small square building, where, he was told, he might obtain what he wanted, and thither he accordingly proceeded. His surprise may be conceived, when, on entering, he found the deputy killehdar already there, with three horsemen, on a similar errand. Not being closely observed at first, he had a moment to collect himself. To have retreated precipitately would have excited suspicion, and probably would have led to detection; changing, therefore, the tone of his voice into accents of feebleness and apparent exhaustion, he asked charity of the killehdar's party. The deputy said, that he might make his fortune, if he had happened to see the persons of whom they were in search; and then inquired whether he had met any body answering the description of the fugitives, which he particularized. On hearing the reward announced, and the de regained the spot where his anxious sister and myself were awaiting his return.

"We then mounted our horses once more; and, believing ourselves, at length, beyond the reach of danger, we proceeded without interruption to Delhi. Here we rested two days, for the purpose of recovering, in some degree, from the exhaustion consequent on the fatigue, danger, and anxiety which we had undergone in our long, hurried, and arduous journey. After having recruited our strength at Delhi, we proceeded towards our ultimate destination, and reached Lahore in a few days, where we were received in the most cordial manner by the relations to whom Nina had looked for protection and support. She had here an uncle, brother to the killehdar of Aseerghur; but between them there was the most deadly hatred. He held the rank of general of horse in the service of the Rajah of Lahore, to whom he undertook to introduce me, as soon as I should be sufficiently recovered from the fatigue of our perilous adventures. I was now attended by a numerous retinue of servants, and most sumptuously entertained. But for a brief period I saw nothing of Nina, which both surprised and distressed me; nor did I receive a single visit from her brother. I began to fear that all was not right; for, during the last day of our eventful journey, she had plighted her affection to me in the most solemn manner. I inquired of my attendants what had become of Nina, but could obtain no information, their fears having been wrought upon to keep me in ignorance of all that related to her. At length, one of them, named Munnoo, having watched an opportunity of finding me alone, with the utmost caution delivered me a note, which, retiring to a remote and solitary part of the grounds, where I hoped to escape observation, I proceeded to peruse. It was from Nina, and, in terms of the most impassioned tenderness, but the deepest affliction, informed me, that she was then closely confined in an upper apartment of the palace; that her uncle, whose protection she had been induced to fly to, by the constantly repeated offers of kindness, and professions of deep and tender interest in her welfare, expressed in the letters which, for several years, he was in the habit of sending to her, had treacherously betrayed her into the hands of the Rajah, from whom she had received a summons to become an inmate of his zenaanah. She, therefore, implored me, in the most fervent and affectionate manner, to contrive some means of effecting her liberation that night, if possible; as, otherwise, she feared all hope of realizing the scheme of happiness, which we had fondly anticipated from our expected union, must be for ever abandoned. Pondering on the painful contents of this communication, every word of which I read several times over, I at length arrived at the reluctant conclusion, that to succeed in any attempt on my part to set her at liberty was utterly impossible, when I discovered four horsemen, evidently engaged in watching my motions. Two of them I presently recognized to be Peer Mahomed and his uncle; and immediately destroying the note, in the best manner I was able, to elude their notice, I advanced towards them, and soon found, by the alteration in their looks and demeanour towards me, that I had no further favour or friendship to look for at their hands. Determined, however, to put the best face on the matter, I asked Peer Mahomed what had occasioned this sudden change; but he answered with a contemptuous sneer. When I inquired after his sister, he replied, with insulting bitterness, that she was beyond the reach of a Christian slave; and, on my observing that, if he had not been the brother of her I loved, his life should have paid the forfeit of the insolence he had displayed, the uncle exclaimed: -- 

"'Young man, restrain your temper, or we shall be obliged to resort to measures of severity towards you. Recollect what you are!'

"I replied, that I was a free man, and a brave one too, and had no idea that I was invited thither for the purpose of being insulted and reproached. Still, however, they persisted in taunting me; and at length I drew my sword, and vowed that I would submit no longer to their insults. The whole party of four then rushed towards me, but Peer Mahomed and his uncle were soon felled to the earth; and the other two hesitating, I spurred my horse, and was quickly beyond their reach. I continued to advance at considerable speed, until the stumbling of the animal which I rode at length drew my attention to his exhausted condition. Fatigued and agitated, I made for a small clump of trees that was near, and, flinging myself down in their shade, I gradually sunk into a broken slumber, on awaking from which, I found that my horse and arms had been removed. I arose, and trembling from chill and anxiety, I staggered towards the road, where a person passing inquired whether I had not lost a horse; and on my answering that I had, and also that my arms had been taken away, he said that he had seen the ruffians plundering me, and that I might think myself fortunate in not having been murdered outright He then pointed out to me the house where he said the robbers resided; and hearing me express my determination to go thither, and demand the restoration of my stolen property, he remonstrated against the rashness of such a proceeding, observing, that, once in the power of Nunkoo Daus, it was no easy matter to escape from his clutches.

"I resolved, however, to make an effort for the recovery of my arms and horse, conceiving it impossible that I could experience any aggravation of the wretchedness of my fate. Knocking at the door, I obtained admission to the apartment where he was sitting; and, making my salaam, I exclaimed,' Sahib, I understand that you have my sword and shield.' In much apparent rage, he inquired where I had gained that intelligence; and, on my pointing to the person who had told me, and who was then peeping from behind the trees, he whistled, and immediately six ruffians appeared, whom he despatched to apprehend the peeper. The poor fellow was soon captured, and brought into the presence of the zemindar, who thus addressed him: -- 

"'Who told you, trembling caffer, that I robbed this stranger? Speak! miscreant, ere I deprive you of life!'

"The captured man sunk to the earth, kissed the feet of the zemindar, and denied having given me the information; upon which he asked me what I had to say to that denial. I then addressed him by name, at which he appeared to be surprised, and inquired who had told me his name. I answered, that his fame was so extensive, I had heard him mentioned at Lahore, by General Mazaffeer-baig. He here laid his hand on his sword, and, with a' fiend-like rage, declared that General Mazaffeer-baig was his most inveterate foe; and then, turning to his minions, he asked how they could best avenge themselves on the general, who, he vowed, should not much longer enjoy the repose of a soft damask couch. One of these ruffians, who had been the day before at Lahore, then informed the zemindar, that there was a report in the city that the general had been assassinated. This intelligence seemed to divert the zemindar, who inquired how it had happened, and who was the perpetrator of the deed. The fellow replied, that the general was said to have been murdered by a stranger, who had accompanied his niece in her flight from the fort of Aseerghur; that Peer Mahomed had fallen also by the same hand; and that a lack of rupees had been offered for the head of the murderer, dead or alive. The zemindar said he would give the man a lack of rupees himself, for ridding the world of his bitterest enemy. I thought this opportunity too good to be neglected, and, throwing myself on the protection of Nunkoo Daus, I exclaimed that I was the individual who, in self-defence, had cut down the general and his nephew. No sooner had the words passed my lips, than, to my unutterable horror and astonishment, he ordered his miscreants to seize me and obtain the reward, saying that it was too large a sum to be sacrificed for mere revenge. I was instantly bound hand and foot, hurried from the apartment, and thrown into a cart, which, guarded by six horsemen and Nunkoo Daus, was quickly on its way to Lahore. We travelled rather slowly, but on the second night we arrived within a few miles of the city, where we took shelter in a tope of trees; and the zemindar, being a voluptuary, sent for some singing girls, and resolved to enjoy himself, in anticipation of the good fortune he was about to realize, in the price of my deliverance to certain destruction. Here, then, was I compelled to be a spectator of the revelry indulged in at my expense. The glass seemed to circulate freely, the tumult increased, and the sentinels who guarded me at length began to yield to the seductive influence of the scene; but my bonds appeared too well secured, to permit me to indulge the hope of escape.

"About two o'clock I heard the great gong of the city strike, and, at the same instant, I felt a cold hand pass over my face; it then cut the cords which bound my arms, and next those which secured my legs, and then my unknown deliverer bade me, in a whisper, to make haste and begone. It was the peeper; he had followed the cavalcade without being observed, in the determination to release me, if possible. I arose from the cart, and he led me to a path which communicated with the recesses of a thick wood. He told me that Peer Mahomed and his uncle were still alive; and, presenting me with a dagger, bade me instantly fly. Scarcely had we both commenced our retreat, when we perceived a number of lights in quick motion, and horsemen galloping to and fro. I had not proceeded above a mile, when I found that my mounted pursuers were fast coming up with me, and I was too much worn and foot-sore to outstrip them. They soon drew near, and I could distinctly hear their vows of vengeance, in case of finding me. Diving into the jungle, I concealed myself until they had passed on about a hundred yards, and then again resumed my solitary and toilsome way, scarcely knowing whither I was bound.

"After travelling a few miles, I determined to take a short interval of repose, for my strength and spirits were beginning to sink from fatigue and distress. To secure myself from the attacks of wild beasts I ascended a tree, and, for some time, fancied myself perfectly safe. I was dozing in a state of half sleeping, half waking stupor, when I thought I heard the sound of human voices. I listened for some minutes, but all seemed still; and again I sunk into a similar doze. But the wind, which occasionally blew in gentle gusts, again appeared to bear along the tones my ear so much dreaded. The voices gradually approaching grew more distinct, and the speakers halted very near the tree in which I was concealed. There I heard them discuss the probability of my being in the forest at all, some thinking that immediate death would have appeared to me preferable to the lingering agonies which an attempt to escape in that way would seem necessarily to involve. I now determined once more to try the effect of ventriloquism, as my pursuers appeared inclined to linger near the place of my retreat. I therefore pitched my voice, so as to have the effect of seeming to be heard from a great distance, and exclaimed, 'we have got him! we have got him!' They all started off at once to the quarter from which the voice appeared to proceed, and, letting myself down from the tree, I darted forward in the opposite direction.

"My suffering was so great from increasing fatigue that I almost wished I had submitted at once to death. My hopes were destroyed, and, on whatever side I looked, the only prospect that met my view was utter desolation and hopeless despair. The morning had now begun to tinge the east, and I resolved once more to seek a short repose. I entered a rocky cavern, and lay down, totally regardless of consequences. I slept long, and dreamed of the pleasures which seemed removed beyond my reach ever again to enjoy, -- of my former good prospects which my youthful dissipation had blighted, and then of my recent escapes and perils, and the hopes that had flitted across them. But what was my astonishment on awaking, to find myself surrounded by Peer Mahomed and several other dismounted horsemen! On the first impulse I felt for my dagger, determined to end my wretched existence at once; but of that weapon they had deprived me while asleep. I then attempted to rise; but Peer Mahomed ordered his men to seize and bind me; 'which was executed with cruel barbarity and despatch. I was then thrown across a horse, and in that manner was I conveyed to Lahore. During the journey, the villian Peer Mahomed took every opportunity to insult and torture me. About the middle of the day we arrived, and I was paraded through the city as the person who had attempted to murder General Mazaffeer-baig and his nephew. Many people had collected round the Rajah's palace, into which I was ordered to be taken and put on my trial for the alleged offence. The Rajah and a number of officers of state were there assembled, and the former comI answered that I was a Christian and a Frenchman. 'And what brought you into my country, and wherefore have you thus treated some of my subjects?' he continued. To this I answered, that Nina, the general's niece, had been the occasion of my coming into his dominions. At this reply the whole court seemed astonished; and the Rajah repeated the question, seeming scarcely to credit his ears. He then desired me to proceed, observing that, if I stated any thing false, a lingering and protracted death awaited me. I then related my whole history, and described the manner in which I had become acquainted with Nina, and the journey we had performed together in company with her brother, Peer Mahomed. During my relation the Rajah seemed greatly agitated, and, when I had concluded, he ordered Nina to be summoned. She shortly afterwards entered the court, wrapped in a white veil. As she approached the Rajah, I perceived a visible uneasiness in the faces of the general and his nephew. On seeing me, she screamed and fainted. When she came to herself, the Rajah ordered that what I had stated should be read aloud to her. After this had been done, the Rajah said: -- 

"'Nina, daughter of Rampunt Dooklah, know you ought of this tale?'

"She fell on her knees, clasped her hands, and, turning her eyes to heaven, called on Allah to witness her assertion, that all I had stated was true. Fixing her eyes on Peer Mahomed, she called on him to testify the truth of her asseveration, and reminded him of my promise to see them safe to the city of Lahore. 'But,' she continued, 'scarcely had he arrived here, when he found his previous friend suddenly converted into a bitter enemy, and myself forced from that roof under which I expected to have found shelter and protection.'

"My statement was now verified; and, instead of being regarded as a criminal, I found the sympathy of the assembly awakened in my favour. The Eajah now addressed himself to the general, and said: --

"'Mazaffeer-baig, I expected not this treatment at your hands. I have hitherto relied on your honour and integrity: I did not expect to have my confidence returned with hypocrisy. I will punish you, by dismissal. Hence, ere my indignation rises higher; and offend not my sight again. And, young man, (addressing Peer Mahomed) I subject you, likewise, to banishment; your perfidy deserves a severer penalty; but you will experience a mercy which you did not exercise, and your life will be henceforth held as a favour, and not possessed as an absolute right.'

"They were both then led in silence from the court; and I could perceive the fierce flashes of revengeful fury dart from their eyes towards me, as they passed along. The Eajah now ordered me to come forward, and I advanced towards the canopy under which he sate. Nina was already there; and the Rajah, addresssing her, observed, that her 'attachment to the stranger seemed ardent and sincere, to which she blushed assent. But, oh! what words can describe my delight and surprise, when the Rajah, descending from his throne, placed the hands of Nina in mine, saying, that such sufferings, affection, and constancy were surely deserving of their reward! He then ordered a small house, within the enclosure of his own grounds, to be appropriated and furnished for our residence. Penetrated with sentiments of the deepest gratitude for this unexpected goodness and liberality, we both kneeled down, and poured out, in fervent expressions of thankfulness, the overflowing feelings of our hearts; and he bestowed on us his benediction, and wished us much happiness in our union.

"Before we retired, I availed myself of a favourable moment to intercede with the Rajah for the pardon of Peer Mahomed, and his restoration to his original appointment, urging that the sentence alone was sufficient punishment, and that he still might be reclaimed by kindness. He commended my forgiving spirit, but refused to reinstate the object of my interposition, saying that, to kill the serpent, but to spare the brood, would evince but little wisdom; and that it was as dangerous to pardon such an offender as it would be criminal to punish the innocent. Having issued orders for the heads of the several departments to see our every want supplied, he waved his hand in permission for us to retire; and Nina and I quitted the presence, breathing many a prayer for blessings on him whose justice had confounded our oppressors, and whose munificent patronage had converted our lot, from one of intense wretchedness, to happiness as unbounded as it was unexpected.

"The cottage in the Loll Baug was small, but fitted up with much elegance, and furnished with every convenience that the most refined taste could require. Having mutually adjusted our respective toilets, we partook of a splendid and delicious repast, and gradually acquired a familiarity with the routine of our new mode of life. Every succeeding day seemed, by bringing some addition to our happiness, to suggest new motives for gratitude to our princely patron. I had, in France, received a military education, and served three years in the cavalry of that country; which circumstances being made known to his highness the Rajah, I was appointed to a command of horse in his service; and in a short time after, from having introduced the European system of discipline, with which he was much pleased, I was promoted to the rank of commander-in-chief of his cavalry. In six months from my elevation to that post, so effectual had been my exertions in improving the organization, order, and efficiency of the troops, he presented me. with a superb gold-mounted sword, as an honorary testimonial of his regard and approval of my services. I daily acquired an increasing share of his confidence, and at length became his most favoured friend and principal adviser.

"In compliance with the Rajah's wishes, that I should perfect myself in the Oriental languages, I applied myself diligently to the study of Persian and Arabic, in which I made such proficiency as, after a little time, to require the assistance of a more able and learned tutor than the one who had hitherto aided my progress; and a friend of the Rajah, at his particular request, undertook to provide me with one every way competent. Accordingly one day, a reverend looking man, with thin grey locks, furrowed cheeks, and a person, attenuated and stooping with years, bearing his introductory letters of recommendation, was ushered into my presence. On entering into conversation with him, he evinced no lack of learning or information; yet there was about him an appearance of embarrassment, restlessness, and awkward reserve of manner, altogether unrelieved by any son of her treacherous relative, of the diabolical nature of whose motives and intentions, in thus covertly intruding himself into my family, no doubt could be entertained. He was taken at once before the Rajah, who, on being informed of the circumstances, immediately ordered the confiscation of his estates, which he had previously allowed him to retain, and issued a proclamation, banishing Mazaffeer-baig from his territory for ever, with a reward to any subject who should put him to death, in the event of his being again found therein, after the expiration of eighteen hours from the notification of this sentence.

"For some time after this occurrence, which Nina's timely discovery of the sanguinary impostor alone, in all probability, prevented from terminating fatally to both of us, our lives were passed in uninterrupted tranquillity and happiness, each continuing to find in the other all the endearing and companionable qualities that constitute that charm of confidence and unconstraint which strengthens the indissolubility of the marriage tie. Our domestic enjoyment, however, was at length disturbed, by some difference arising between the Rajah and the chief of the neighbouring tribe of Afghans, which, every effort at an amicable adjustment proving unavailing, terminated in an open rupture. On me devolved the task of directing and superintending the most important part of the preparations for opening the campaign; and the occupation which these afforded diverted my attention from my private griefs, though it could not conceal from my observation the consuming sorrow which wasted the peace of Nina. Her spirits appeared to be gradually sinking, and the depression under which she laboured seemed to increase as the period fixed for my departure to take the field approached. She gave way to the most gloomy forebodings from the dangers which, in the feverish agitation of her feelings, her affection suggested as likely to befal me, from the chances of war and the perfidious machinations of her uncle and brother, whose implacable hatred she feared would constantly pursue me, and of whose treacherous snares there would be no end, until they should have accomplished my destruction. Thus, when the hour of parting arrived, and it became necessary to tear myself from her arms, to join the troops, who were already waiting to commence their march, I found the pain of separation from the object most dear to me in life, aggravated by the poignancy of the affliction to which I was compelled to resign her, to whom I was indebted for my recent happiness and present elevation, and for the means which hereafter fortune and farther greatness. Forcing myself away, however, and enjoining her attendants to the most diligent care and watchfulness of the precious deposit which I left in their charge, I took my station at the head of the. column of cavalry; which forthwith set forward on its march, in a style not less imposing, by its order and regularity, than exciting by the gaiety and exhilaration of spirits which it displayed. The glittering of the arms, the variety of the trappings, and splendour of the accoutrements of the several corps, -- the nodding plumes, the waving colours and standards, and the din of martial music mingling with the cheering shouts of the assembled inhabitants, as we marched out of the city of Lahore, formed one of the most striking and gorgeous pageants that had been witnessed within its walls since the days of the renowned and magnificent Jehangeer.

"The Afghan people, against whom we were now about to commence operations, are men of a robust make, generally lean, but strong and muscular, with prominent noses, high cheek bones, and oval faces; in complexion, for the most part, dark, their hair and beards being generally black. The western Afghans are stouter than those of the east, some of surprising strength and stature, but, in the aggregate, not so tall as the generality of Europeans. Their manners are frank and open, and they are remarkable among the nations of the east for their veracity and freedom from guile. Their ruling passion is the love of gain; and hoarding is a common practice with all classes, the influence of money being nearly unbounded with them. They are proud of their pedigree. Their prevailing vices are those of revenge, envy, avarice, rapacity, and obstinacy; but, on the other hand, they are fond of independence, faithful to each other, kind to their immediate dependents, hospitable, brave, hardy, frugal, laborious, prudent, and much less debauched, voluptuous, and dishonest, than their neighbours, the Hindoostanees and Persians. Such were the people with whom we were about to enter into a contest, in which their natural bravery had the additional stimulants of the love of conquest and the desire of revenge.

"Our army consisted of a large force of infantry, including several thousands of tried veterans, with a considerable artillery, and a numerous body of cavalry under my command, comprising ten regiments of light-horse, to each of which was attached a piece of field artillery. We left Lahore in the highest spirits, every bosom glowing with military ardour, each countenance lighted up with smiles, -- the outward tokens of the confidence and pride of those expectations of success and anticipations of glory that animated the mind within.

"On the third day of our march, the whole army was reviewed by the Rajah in person; and afterwards the principal officers assembled in council, when he addressed them, solemnly swearing that he was about to unsheath the sword in no idle dream of conquest or ambition, but for the defence of the country, and the maintenance of his personal freedom and just rights, in which were included those of all who were then gathered around him; and, in conclusion, drawing his sabre, he called upon those who were prepared zealously to join him, in that sacred cause, and to serve it with fidelity, to ratify their oath of allegiance by crossing his blade with their's. All present having joined in that solemn ceremony, he then severally embraced each of us, saying to me, 'On you, General Villency, I much depend; and I feel assured that my hopes in you will not be disappointed.' I answered, that I had but one life, but that had I ten thousand, they would cheerfully be devoted to the services of one in whose conduct towards me I had ever found the indulgent kindness of a parent blended with the generous sincerity of a friend. The necessary dispositions having then been made, we pushed on into the enemy's territory, marching in three columns, flanked by my cavalry, parties of the light-horse covering the advance. . The twelfth day brought us in sight of the town of Peshawer, before which we discovered a large body of the enemy's horse, drawn up in line at the foot of a considerable hill; and, approaching to reconnoitre, I perceived with my glass masses of infantry, supported by artillery, formed in their rear. The Rajah, unaware of this circumstance, was in the act of giving orders for a charge upon the enemy's cavalry, when I arrived; and, to induce him to suspend the command, I advised an instant retreat. He heard me with a countenance strongly marked with surprise and anger; but having explained to him what I had observed, and pointed out the serious ill consequences of a failure in the outset, which was more than probable, should we hastily attack a force so greatly superior in numbers, with the advantage of being so favourably posted, I succeeded in appeasing his anger, and making him sensible of the propriety of the course which I recommended. We then pushed forward strong parties of skirmishers along the whole front of the enemy's line, and upon his flank, in order, by inducing them to expect an attack, to enable our columns to fall back, without molestation, upon a position which I had noticed within a short distance of our line of march, where we might, if the enemy were disposed to engage, as, from our appearing to avoid him, it was most likely he would, advantageously offer him battle, the nature of the ground more than compensating for our inequality in point of numbers. The manoeuvre succeeded; and when our columns were in full retreat, I called in our skirmishers, and the enemy, breaking up from the strong position which he had occupied, followed with the whole of his force. The confusion arising from the rapidity and unexpectedness of the movement enabled me, with my cavalry, to keep the advance of his columns in check, until our troops had fairly taken up their ground, in the position which I had directed that they should occupy. Our retreat, though rapid, was executed with admirable order and precision, and four hours sufficed for the placing of our whole force in its intended order of battle. The infantry were formed in three lines, supported by the heavy guns in battery, behind a deep nullah, from the bank of which the ground rose in a gentle slope, with a deep ravine in the rear, on the other side of which was a high ridge, covered with bushes and under-wood, that was occupied by several companies of our best marksmen. The cavalry were formed in three divisions: one drawn up in line along the front of our position, masking the infantry in open column in their rear, and the guns in position on the other side of the nullah; and the others, with the light artillery, in column, on each flank, for the purpose of taking the enemy in flank when he should be engaged with our centre.

"Such were the dispositions adopted by the Rajah at my suggestion; and with such admirable precision were they carried into effect, that, when the centre division of the cavalry halted and wheeled into line, its front was the only part of our force that met the eye of the enemy. The latter now came on in one genera] line, in alternate brigades of infantry and cavalry _ When they had advanced sufficiently near to ob . serve the front of our position they halted, and seemingly satisfied that we had neither infantry nor artillery, they doubled the line of the cavalry in their centre, and strengthened the divisions of horse on their flanks, indicating an intention of charging us at once; and, these arrangements being completed, those corps began to advance. Nothing now was heard save the close, firm, and rapid tread of horses in our front, which fell with momentarily increasing strength and distinctness on the ear, and an earnest whisper occasionally stealing from man to man along our ranks; while every eye, fixed on the approaching foe, seemed eagerly to measure each step that successively decreased their distance, and to calculate the yet remaining moments of that solemn pause, the impressiveness of which, upon even the bravest hearts and most heroic minds, none can know but those whose fate it has been to experience the thrill of suspense between the forming of the line for inevitable battle and the first charge or volley of the actually commencing fight. In moments like those men live an age.

"'Let them draw near enough,' said the Rajah, as, upon observing the enemy within musket range, he proceeded to place himself at the head of our infantry. Their whole line advanced at a charge, and were rapidly approaching our position, but not a man of our's attempted to move until they were within a couple of hundred paces, when our cavalry, filing through the intervals of the infantry, reformed in their rear, and the latter, wheeling rapidly into line, poured their well-directed vollies upon the astonished cavalry in front, while a most destructive fire from our great guns caused the most terrible havock among their broken squadrons, which were mowed down or scattered in every direction, their infantry not being at hand to afford them the smallest support. At length their infantry, coming within range, and seeing the route, and confusion, and carnage which had befallen their cavalry, charged in masses upon our centre. They were allowed to approach within a few yards of the nullah, when the close and well-directed vollies of our infantry broke the heads of their columns, while the discharges of our artillery swept them from front to rear, and our cavalry charging them in flank, their defeat was complete, and the carnage immense. In leading a charge, my horse was shot under me; and remounting another, I was riding among their scattered ranks, when one of my staff reported to me, that the corps with which we were then engaged was commanded by Mazaffeer-baig, who with his nephew, Peer Mahomed, had been seen in the thickest of the fight, dealing destruction around them, and urging on their men with all the furious malignity of demons. Galloping towards the spot where they were conspicuously exerting themselves to maintain the struggle, which was now evidently hopeless of advantage to their party, I found myself presently attacked with the most deadly ferocity by Peer Mahomed, who proved himself not less skilful as a swordsman, than fiercely determined as a foe; and it was not until after a desperate combat, of several minutes' duration, that I succeeded in overcoming him by a cut which, cleaving his head asunder, killed him on the spot. His uncle, in the mean time, had fallen beneath the sabres of half a dozen opponents. The Afghans fought, in every instance, with the obstinate valour of brave and determined men, conscious that they had every thing at stake, and that their case, in the event of defeat, was desperate; many rushing forward with resistless impetuosity, met their deaths by being dashed to the bottom of the ravine, into which they plunged headlong, through coming upon it unexpectedly, in the incautious eagerness of their advance. But, their formations being repeatedly broken and pierced through on every point, their reiterated and persevering efforts altogether failed to make any impression upon our position; and a general advance of the whole of our line, at length, drove them to indiscriminate flight, pursued in all directions by bodies of our victorious light-horse, until the shades of night interposed to screen them from further molestation. The field of action and the surrounding country were covered with the killed and wounded; and a vast number of prisoners, with several pieces of cannon and a considerable booty, fell into our hands. Our forces occupied during the night the position in front of Peshawer, whence the enemy had been induced to break up the preceding day, for the purpose of pursuing us in our supposed retreat; and, by ten o'clock, every precaution of mounting the necessary guards, stationing outposts, pickets, and videttes, having been completed, the most perfect tranquillity and repose prevailed throughout our bivouack, and we passed the night without the slightest molestation.

"After a minute observation of our position the next morning, I had the satisfaction of receiving from the Rajah a public acknowledgment, that, had we charged the enemy on our first discovering them, when there posted the day before, as he had proposed, a total failure and defeat must inevitably have been the consequence; and, taking me cordially by the hand, he declared, that to my prudent suggestion and excellent arrangement of our movement in retreat, and the skilful disposition of our forces which I had made in the position to which we retired, we were wholly indebted for the signal success of the previous day; the result of which had been a complete victory, achieved at a comparatively trifling loss, though the number of our killed and wounded was certainly considerable. I expressed, in the warmest terms, my grateful sense of this very flattering recognition of my services, as also the satisfaction I felt in having been instrumental in the securing to his arms of such a decided advantage in the outset of the campaign. I then informed him of the fate of the traitor Mazaffeer-baig and his nephew, Peer Mahomed, whose base and unprincipled junction with the enemies of their country excited his indignation to a degree fully commensurate with the satisfaction he derived from their downfall.

"The news of our engagement and victory, 'which I immediately communicated to Nina, filled her with delight, as she drew from it an augury of the speedy termination of hostilities; in which conjecture she proved to he right, for, the force of the enemy being completely broken, it would have required a considerable time, and much expensive preparation, to enable them to bring a second army into the field, in a condition, from numbers and efficiency, to cope with our's, to the operations of which they could, in the mean time, have opposed only a very slight and ineffectual check. These considerations induced them, after a short negotiation, to accede to the terms proposed by the Rajah, which were, that they should make full reparation to his subjects for the depredations committed in several inroads, upon his territory, which had led to the present war; that they should indemnify him fully for the expences incurred in the preparation and conduct of the campaign; and further, that they should pay a large sum, by the way of ransom, for certain cities which, being then almost wholly unprotected and completely at our mercy, offered to our soldiers a prospect of prize-money, for the withholding of which they were entitled to a compensation. These demands being fully complied with, a treaty of peace was speedily ratified; and our army, breaking up from its encampment, returned in triumph to Lahore, which we entered after a march of seven days.

"Thus I found myself, much sooner than I expected, restored to the arms of my Nina, in whose sweet society my days glided on in calm content and uninterrupted peace, until at length an incident occurred to ruffle the serenity of a career of happiness, to which it was nigh putting a sudden and fatal stop. Walking with her one evening by moonlight, in the gardens of the Loll Baug, my attention was suddenly arrested by the noise of something that whistled quickly past us, and, turning to observe it, I discovered the cause in an arrow that stuck, still quivering with the force of the concussion, in the bole of a neighbouring tree. I stepped forward to examine it, and on the instant a second arrow fell close to Nina, who instantly fled into our dwelling, which was close at hand, calling to me to accompany her. I quickly followed her, and despatched a number of my people, with orders to search every part of the grounds for the villainous archer, of whom, however, no trace could be discovered. The arrows, on inspection, were found to be marked with the name of the maker, who was a resident in the city; and on the following morning, the Rajah, being informed of the circumstances, caused him to be brought into his presence for examination. On being questioned, the man at once acknowledged the arrows to be of his manufacture, and stated that he had sold six of the same description the day before to an old man, of 'whom he had no knowledge whatever, but whom he should easily recognize, through his face being remarkably disfigured by scars from a number of wounds, which he said he had received in the late encounter with the Afghans. A general and very close search was made through the city and environs, for an old man with the appearances described, and a large sum was offered as a reward for his apprehension, but none could be found resembling the supposed object of our anxiety; and finding, upon an investigation of the cases of our soldiers wounded in the battle referred to, that no one among them corresponded with the very striking particulars stated by the fletcher, the Rajah thence inferring that, if not the principal, he was at least an accomplice in the guilt of this atrocious attempt at murder, condemned him to death, fixing an interval of some days for his execution, in the hopes that, either by his confession or by some clue yet undiscovered, the mystery in which the transaction was veiled might be withdrawn. The appointed morning arrived, but no farther light had been shed upon the matter; and the grounds of suspicion on which the sentence was founded, appearing to me not sufficient to warrant his execution, I hastened at an early hour to implore a respite, which the Rajah yielded to my earnest solicitation, and, determined myself to be the bearer of the tidings, I galloped off towards the place where the preparations were making for the final accomplishment of the unfortunate culprit's doom. As I was passing an old mosque, an arrow whizzed across my face, and, through an aperture in the building, I caught a momentary glance of a figure, the outline of which struck me at once as strongly resembling what the condemned man had described; and having picked up the arrow, which, like the others, bore his name, I urged my horse to his utmost speed, and, having arrived in time to stay the execution, then proceeded with a strong detachment of troops to surround the old mosque. After searching it most minutely in every part, without discovering the trace of a human being, we were about to retire, when a sheekaree (hunter) came forward, and, having learned our object, said he had a bloodhound which would track the villain to the distance of ten miles if he once got the scent of him. He accordingly fetched his dog, which, being placed in that part of the building from which I believed the person who shot the arrow to have taken his aim, after snuffing around for a few moments in silent eagerness, began to bark, and then rushed towards a tomb, upon which he sprang and continued baying fiercely. As nothing would induce the dog to remove from the spot, or to cease his barking and other demonstrations of anxiety about the tomb, which, however, bore no perceptible sign of having recently been opened, I at length ordered it to be broken open, which was effected with so much ease as at least to give cause for suspicion; and no sooner was its entrance disclosed, than the dog rushed down, barking furiously, but on a sudden became quite mute. The hunter then descended into the vault, accompanied by a soldier, and a scuffle was heard, followed by a renewal of the dog's barking, and, in a few moments, the hunter and soldier returned both wounded, but dragging forth an old man in custody, upon whom the dog had fastened. The prisoner was immediately conveyed to the city gaol, where he was at once identified by the manufacturer of bows and arrows as the recent customer for whom he had so narrowly escaped being made a scape-goat. To all else, however, he remained unknown; his countenance was so disfigured with scars, that no trace remained of its original features; he appeared to be lamed in one arm, and his face was overspread with an ashy paleness, while a fierce brightness glanced in his quickly rolling eyes, that seemed to denote, if not insanity, the utmost intensity of temporary mental excitement. Notwithstanding the betrayal of symptoms of the utmost restlessness and anxiety, he persisted in maintaining the most sullen and invincible silence; frequent heavy gasping sighs forcing themselves from his bosom, and repeated convulsive shudderings agitating his whole frame. He was securely lodged in a.dungeon, to await his trial, which was ordered for the next day. When brought into court the following morning, to the interrogatory, several times repeated, of who he was and where he came from, he made no answer. At length, on being further questioned, he exclaimed, in a frantic tone, that he was once as great a man as he who filled that tyrannic throne. The officers in attendance thereupon seized hold of him; but the Rajah desired them not to hurt him, for he was evidently mad. The prisoner immediately bellowed out, 'that is true, indeed, I am most surely mad; and nothing but the blood of that Christian slave will allay the fury that rages in my breast. Behold!' he continued, throwing open his bosom, 'behold Mazaffeer-baig!' and, having uttered those words, he made a rush towards the place where I was standing, but was prevented from reaching me by the officers, who instantly seized him, and four of whom, old as he was, had Scarcely sufficient strength to restrain him. He struggled with the utmost violence to extricate himself from their grasp, venting a torrent of the fiercest invectives and execrations on the Rajah and myself; then, suddenly pausing, he glared wildly around him, and exerting his whole remaining force in a final desperate spring, on the momentary check, uttering a single hollow groan, he fell back and expired. The court then broke up; and the corpse being removed, was privately interred in the course of the ensuing night, without any of the customary funeral observances.

"Though the grief of Nina for the death of her brother by my hand had settled into a quiet and composed sorrow, her spirits had never recovered their former tone, and her health continued precarious; the shock she experienced, therefore, on learning the particulars of this last ferocious display of savage and unmitigable malignity, on the part of her uncle, with the awful catastrophe of his death, completely shattered her delicate constitution. The grief which wrung her gentle and affectionate bosom, for the unhappy fate of these her nearest relatives, derived no mitigation from the consciousness of their demerits, while the acquiescence in its justice thereby extorted, fell upon her mind with somewhat of a sense of self-condemnation; and the affliction caused by the repetition of these malevolent attacks upon the life and fortunes of a husband so endeared to her, was aggravated by the reflection, that to those who thus violently assailed her dearest interests she was bound by the tenderest ties of kindred. In vain, having by the Rajah's wish transferred our abode to apartments assigned for us in the palace, did I avail myself of all the resources which that splendid establishment and the wealth and influence of its munificent owner placed at my command, in the hope of repairing the ravages which sorrow had made upon her frame, and gradually renovating her wasted strength. Her 'peace was gone, her heart was broken;' her health was irreparably undermined, the elasticity of her spirits had lost its spring, and a rapid decline, in a few months, hurried her to the grave. The poignancy of the anguish which overwhelmed me on this melancholy bereavement of a partner, to whose generous and devoted attachment I owed all the good fortune I had enjoyed, and in the fond tenderness and unshaken firmness of whose tried affection I had found a balm for every ill in life, there is no power in language can enable me to describe. Suffice it to say, that I felt myself alone in the world, the gay pomp, the glittering splendour, the toilsome magnificence with which I was surrounded, aggravating, by contrast, as with bitterest mockery, my sense of loneliness.

CHAPTER V.

"Each succeeding day, instead of diminishing, seemed to add to my affliction, by the fresh proofs, 'which it failed not to bring, of the value of that beloved society of which I found myself thus deprived, and the irreparable nature of the loss I had thereby sustained. In the Rajah, however, I found a steady and sincerely attached friend, whose efforts were unremitting to afford relief to my sorrows, by diverting my mind from the painful subject by which it was wholly engrossed. With this view, he would frequently discourse to me of the duty of resignation to the divine will of Him by whom such privations were kindly and beneficently designed, for the purpose of chastening our minds, by preventing our thoughts from fixing solely upon the fleeting joys of this life, and directing them to that eternity for which the soul of the just man longeth, and where alone true and lasting happiness is to be found, in the full knowledge and perfect love of God. My grief at length subsided into a calm and settled melancholy; to draw me forth from which the Rajah projected a hunting excursion into Khumaon, whose golden streams, luxuriant vegetation, richly variegated mountains, and magnificent forests, by presenting new objects of contemplation, might, he hoped, awaken fresh interests in my bosom, and open to my imagination yet unexplored sources of delight.

"We accordingly set forth with a splendid equipage and a numerous retinue of followers and attendants, and, on reaching a suitable spot, we formed an elegant and extensive encampment. Here, in a few days, under the combined influence of the invigorating freshness of the climate, the beauty and variety of the country, and the excitement of our daily avocations, I found myself greatly renovated in health and spirits, and gradually mingled more and more in society with the officers and retainers of the Rajah's court, particularly with Kharattee, his principal favourite and confidant, who closely attached himself to my company. I found him addicted to enjoyment, and fond of nocturnal revelling, almost to the verge of licentiousness, and by the seductive air of friendliness which his sedulous and apparently well-meant endeavours to promote hilarity assumed, I know not to what degree of excess in indulgence I might have been led on, had not a slight unguarded act of his, in a moment of overweening confidence of anticipated success, produced a discovery, as timely as unexpected, of the snares which that base and unprincipled miscreant was treacherously spreading for my destruction, and the ruin of his princely friend and benefactor.

"One morning, as we were sitting at breakfast in the tent of the Rajah, an attendant informed the latter that two persons, who were without, wished to enlist in his service. Kharattee said he knew the men, and that they were relations of his, whom he could certify to be both honest and brave. The Rajah ordered them to be introduced, and then informed them that, since they were so well recommended, he could have no hesitation in admitting them into his service, and that they were thenceforth to consider themselves under the command of General Villency. At the moment when the latter part of this sentence was uttered, I perceived Kharattee giving the strangers a significant wink, and, observing them more closely in consequence, I recognized, in the person of one who was younger than his companion, the busiest and most troublesome of the party of soldiers who had visited me in my dungeon in the fort of Aseerghur. I immediately turned to the Rajah and said that, although not related to either of these volunteers, I had previously had some knowledge of one of them at least, as a soldier in the service of the killehdar of Aseerghur. Starting on his feet, the Rajah, in a tone of the fiercest anger, demanding of Kharattee an explanation of this mystery, was abruptly answered by the latter that my assertion was false. I at once indignantly repelled his accusation, and exclaimed that there was evidently some plot at the bottom of this transaction which required the strictest immediate investigation. Kharattee and his two pretended relations prevaricated and contradicted each other so much, in their respective answers to the questions that were then severally addressed to them, that the Rajah could no longer restrain his rage, but, calling in his guards, ordered them to be immediately taken into custody. I then advanced, and presenting him my sword, said that, until I had cleared my character from the stain which the imputation of falsehood attached to it, it might, perhaps, be proper that I also should be placed under arrest, or at least suspended from my command. But to this suggestion the Rajah would by no means listen. He declared that he did not believe me capable of falsehood, although attempts had been previously made by Kharattee to sway his opinion to my prejudice. I then suggested that the persons of the prisoners should be searched on the spot; on hearing which, Kharattee made a desperate effort to escape, but was immediately secured, and, a strict search having been made, there was found upon them the whole of a correspondence developing a most diabolical and deep-laid plot, devised between Kharattee and the killehdar of Aseerghur for the destruction of the Rajah, Nina, and myself, either by poison, assassination, or entrapping us into an ambuscade, accordingly as circumstances should render either mode the most feasible; and, in the event of our being secured alive, relays of horses were stationed 'along the route to Aseerghur, to expedite our conveyance to that fortress, where we were to be delivered into the power of the killehdar, the monster placing the fullest reliance on Kharattee for securing to him the means of thus personally gratifying his malignant thirst for revenge, on the prospect of which he expatiated in terms of the most demoniacal exultation and delight.

"As soon as the letters had been read, the Rajah sternly inquired of Kharattee whether he had any thing to offer by way of explanation or comment upon his conduct, or upon the damning proofs which had been produced of his base and treacherous ingratitude. Raising his head, and fixing upon the Rajah a look of the most fixed and deadly hatred, he avowed with unflinching and imperturbable effrontery, that he gloried in the exploit which he had undertaken, and only regretted that it should have proved abortive; for the mismanagement by which he had failed of securing the suecess of his long-cherished design, he admitted that he deserved death, and was ready then to meet it on the instant; and, throwing open his bosom, he called upon the Rajah and me successively, with the vilest torrents of abuse and vituperation, to punish his miscarriage by sheathing our daggers in the body of one who regarded us both with unspeakable loathing and detestation. Finding that these ebullitions of his now impotent malice were regarded only with silent contempt, he vented his rage in attempts to spit in our faces, which the guards effectually prevented; and, on a sign from the Rajah, he and his companions were removed from the tent, and immediately conveyed, in irons and strongly guarded, to Lahore, where they underwent the execution of the sentence of death, which had been pronounced against them, on the third day after their arrival.

CHAPTER VI.

"This event was bat little calculated to aid me in the recovery of that calm and settled frame of mind, which alone could enable me, with comfort and satisfaction to myself and advantage to the service of the Rajah, to attend to the multifarious duties of my command. The reflections to which it gave rise were of a nature far from agreeable, and by no means tended to reconcile me to the peculiar annoyances of my present position. When the heart of a man is depressed, the current of his thoughts naturally reverts to those scenes which have been endeared by their association with the objects of its early affections. No wonder then, that deprived of the society of Nina, through whom all that I had known of happiness or enjoyment, for years past, had been derived, my mind, sickening with its sense of loneliness, aggravated to a degree of morbidness by the hollow mockery of the irksome splendour that surrounded me, should revolt from the contemplation of the endless train of snares and machinations which the exhaustless malice of my unrelenting enemy persevered in weaving for my destruction, and find relief even amidst the bitterness that mingled with the delight of pondering on various passages of my youthful days, which busy memory now recalled, and the many advantages once within my reach, which my own imprudence alone had prevented me from turning to the permanent benefit of myself and others. Sobered by the chastening influence of the trials and misfortunes I had undergone, to a disrelish for my former follies, I longed for the opportunity of retrieving and atoning for past errors and indiscretions, by the useful employment of my talents and the knowledge I had acquired from experience in the service of my native country; and with the view of endeavouring, at least, to realise the hopes that were thus awakened in my bosom, I resolved to solicit from the Eajah permission to return on a temporary visit to Europe, as soon as our present expedition should have terminated, and we should have returned to our own quarters in Lahore.

"On the morning after the execution of Kharattee and his companions, we started at an early hour in pursuit of game, and three wild deer held us an excellent chace; the run, which ended in their capture, leading us within the borders of the forest of Nepaul. We had penetrated but a short distance into the forest, when we roused a large tiger, which had couched in the high grass, of which the growth is there uncommonly thick and exuberant, and a general chace ensued. I was mounted on a beautiful Arabian, of the finest breed, which was my favourite among all the horses of my stud, as having been the gift of Nina. His superior speed enabled me to take the lead of the party, and, in the excitement of the occasion, I pushed on, unmindful of the increasing distance which separated me from my companions, whom I imagined to be still close at hand, when six horsemen suddenly crossed my route, who instantly made towards me. A suspicion at once flashed upon my mind, that they probably belonged to the party sent from Aseerghur, to form the ambuscade into which we were to have been decoyed by the traitor Kharattee; and scarcely had I had a moment for reflection, when, in the person of the foremost, I recognized the deputy killehdar, and, dashing at him, I had cut him down ere he could raise his spear to evade my motion. The sudden fall of their leader drew upon me the immediate pursuit of his followers; and, not doubting my fate, should I fall into their hands, I put my high-bred Arabian to his full speed. After continuing my way for some time along the skirt of the forest, perceiving that I had dropped my pursuers far in the rear, I diverged into the interior, with the view of losing them altogether; and, in order to secure the attainment of that object, I advanced 'with unabated speed for fully an hour; and even after I slackened my pace, still continued to penetrate the recesses of the forest in the direction I had thus newly taken, little dreaming of the extent to which the course I was then following would influence my future fate, and that I should thereby be cut off for ever from the possibility of returning, as I had purposed, to the land of my birth.

"While riding along, and meditating on the route which I should take to rejoin my party, with the best chance of security against falling in with any of the stragglers from the killehdar's detachment, that were doubtless hovering in the track, I came suddenly upon what at first appeared to be an animal of the baboon or monkey species, but, on a nearer approach and more particular observation, I discovered to be a white man! On finding himself observed he hastily retreated, and I immediately pursued, addressing him successively in Persian and Hindoostanee, in French and in English. On gaining a small open glade of the forest I encountered a troop of baboons, who received me with repeated discharges of clay balls, which they projected from slings! Unable to oppose any resistance to their assault, I withstood the brunt of it with as much firmness as I could muster; and after I had borne it for some time without shrinking, the object of my pursuit again appeared, and having regarded me with evident emotion for several minutes, he addressed my assailants in a tone of command which caused them to suspend their hostilities, and then advanced towards me. He was an European, and, judging from his accent, that he was also an Englishman, I answered his first inquiry, -- of who I was, -- in the English language; the sound of which seemed to excite within his bosom a tumult of conflicting feelings, by the violence of which he was nearly overcome, but at length found relief in a passionate gush of tears. When this paroxysm had subsided, he assured me that I had nothing to fear, and, pointing to a cavern, which he said was his dwelling, invited me to enter. My first impression was one of surprise, at finding a human being of any description, much more an European, resident in such a situation, in the deep seclusion of an Indian forest, and domesticated amidst the wild tribe with whom I had seen him surrounded, and who appeared to recognize his authority and obey his commands; this was quickly succeeded by a strong feeling of interest in the fate of one born in a neighbouring nation to my own, and placed, like myself, in a strange land far distant from his home, with which all hope of intercourse was, for a time at least, if not for ever, debarred by a series of vicissitudes, the probable resemblance of which to those of my extraordinary career gave him a claim upon my sympathy scarcely inferior to that of one's natural kindred. No wonder, then, that my curiosity was excited, and I became anxious to hear the history of his adventures, with which, having dismounted and entered his humble abode, and partaken of the homely repast of fruit, which he spread before me, he proceeded to make me acquainted.

"He informed me that he was a deserter from an English ship of war, in which he had come to India several years before. Availing himself of permission to spend a short time on shore, he had quitted the coast, and, striking into the interior of the country, wandered about for several months, enduring the severest sufferings from fatigue, privations, and the effects of the climate, until at length, destitute and nearly naked, he made his way to Catmandoo in search of employment, and there encountered the most harsh and inhospitable treatment. Getting little to do and less to eat, he bore up against insult and starvation for a period of several months, at the close of which he determined on making an attempt to reach Calcutta or some other English settlement, and there to surrender himself. He accordingly commenced his journey, and had proceeded as far as the part of the forest in which he now lived, when, overcome by fatigue and hunger, he threw himself on the earth in despair, and prayed for a speedy termination of his miserable existence. His exhaustion at length inducing a desire for repose, he with some difficulty climbed up into a tree, and, stretching across a bough, he secured himself with a band of twisted grass to the trunk, and slumbered until morning. When he awoke, he found himself in the deep and solemn gloom of an immense and trackless forest, alone, unguarded, destitute and forlorn, fearing to descend, lest he should become the prey of some ravening beast, and yet assured of a more dreadful lingering death, if he should remain in the situation in which he then was. Being, however, somewhat refreshed and recruited in strength by the rest he had enjoyed, lie at length got down, and, exploring the vicinity, soon gathered an abundant supply of wild fruits, on which he made a hearty and refreshing meal. Finding that the place abounded in fruits of various kinds, though not of the richest quality, he determined to remain there for a short time, until his strength and spirits were renovated; and, accordingly, searching around for some convenient spot to form a dwelling, he discovered the cavern in which we were then sitting, and hard by it a cave, with an opening from above, to which he had contrived a rude sort of hatch entrance, which had since served him for a habitation, and the shelter and accommodation of which he most cordially pressed me to partake. Determining to wait a little ere I should resume my way, I accepted his frankly proffered invitation, and he then set before me some bread which he had contrived to manufacture from the wild chesnut, and some milk of the cocoa-nut, of which and some fruit I made a hearty meal. In return for his hospitality I imparted to him a sketch of my own life, comprising the history of my departure from France, my arrival in India, and my subsequent varied adventures down to the period of our meeting. He seemed much affected by the narration, and frequent tears of sympathy bedewed his weather-beaten cheeks as he listened to the numerous trials and privations I had undergone. The varieties of fortune which had chequered alike our separate courses of experience, were calculated to draw forth on either side ties of mutual fellowship and good feeling, which the extraordinary coincidence of their present issue seemed destined to weave into lasting bonds of attachment and friendship. For some time after I had concluded my narrative, my host continued to be greatly agitated, and seemed to be pondering over the events of his past life; and, from the frequency of his heavy and broken sighs, I inferred his recollections of former days, of home and kindred, perhaps not wholly free from the bitterness of remorse, were saddened into gloom by anticipations of the future, which, held out no hope of his ever returning to that country which he ardently longed to revisit, but was destined never again to behold. At length, however, he became more calm and collected, and, rising, said it was now time that he should look after what he ought, indeed, to have attended to before -- the security of my horse. Passing accordingly through the door which, as I before mentioned, was in the roof of the cave, and looking around, he exclaimed that my horse had wandered away, and was out of sight; a piece of intelligence that may be supposed to have added nothing to the comfort of my situation at the time, involving, as it did, the probable loss of the only means on which I could rely for my extrication from that gloomy solitude. To my surprise, however, he added, that he would send some of his 'people' in search of the missing animal; and after uttering, in a loud and commanding tone, a number of detached phrases, no part of which I could understand, he re-entered, and occupied his former position. I then inquired what he meant by his 'people;' at which he smiled, and proceeded to describe to me the history and nature of the tribe of beings by which he was surrounded, and the means by which he had rendered them amenable to his rule, and acquired a sufficient power of controul over their actions, to render them mutually subservient to his and their own security and comfort.

"When first he took up his abode in that place, he casually fell in with a baboon of the larger rock species, which had been wounded by some more powerful beast of prey, which, in spite of all its efforts at resistance, he conveyed to his hut, where he dressed its lacerated limbs, and fed and attended it, until he had effected its cure, with a determination, if possible, to tame it, and avail himself of such services as he might be enabled to train it to. At first it sullenly opposed all his endeavours, rejecting the food which he had placed before it, and striving to repel his services in other respects; but, at length, becoming reconciled to his presence and over-powered by hunger, it was induced to eat some cocoa-nut from his hand, and then by degrees became more tractable and familiar, still, however, evincing a desire to escape, which by care and vigilance he contrived to prevent; and in the course of a few weeks the creature became thoroughly passive, gentle, and docile, and apparently sensible of the kindness and service it had received at his hands. It was a female, and in a breeding state, and in due time added a new member to the forester's establishment, which thrived and grew up perfectly docile and orderly; and, finding them at length thoroughly domesticated, he allowed them free ingress and egress to and from the hut, to which, after straying to a very inconsiderable distance, they thenceforth uniformly and speedily returned. In the process of time they drew to the spot other individuals of the same species, which he secured, and, by a due course of similar training, succeeded in like manner in reclaiming; so that, with recruits from the woods and their natural increase, the number of this hairy tribe, domesticated beneath the sway of this eccentric being, at the time of my discovering his retreat, amounted to a band of fifty. He had trained them in a strict and regular discipline, enforcing obedience by the potent application of a good stout cudgel, which he had always at hand. 'The creatures are attached to me,' said he; 'I have turned their native sagacity to account, using them to fetch and carry whatever may be wanted, to collect wood, to gather fruit of the several kinds directed, to dry and prepare particular sorts of the various productions of the forest and lay them by in store, and in the use, for defence against any hostile incursions, of those weapons from which you received a salute, by way of a specimen, on your entrance within our domain. I am the monarch of these animals, and of the tract which their force enables me to hold. Taking them altogether they are obedient and dutiful subjects, and such is the promptitude with which they congregate upon the accustomed summons, the number in which they always appear, and the efficiency with which, under the influence of the training to which they have been subjected, they act in concert, that I feel a degree of confidence and security in my little dominion, which enables me to reap, to the fullest extent, all the enjoyment that such an isolated mode of living, in this beautiful region and luxuriant climate, can yield to one who, though bred in society, was ever averse to the endurement of its restraints. I cannot, however, forget my country, my parents and my home; and the recollection of these often fills me with regrets that torture me, at times, even to the verge of madness; though I have long since abandoned every expectation and thought of again seeing my native island and the friends of my youth, and, indeed, after five years residence in these solitudes, wholly apart from, and unseen by man, I no longer feel any desire to return into society again, to encounter the shock of human passions, pride, and meanness, with the risk of being again exposed to a renewal of those sufferings and reverses, of which I formerly endured so much, and from which, amid the bustle and tumult of the world, the life of man is never wholly exempt. -- But, we must see about your horse.'

"So saying, he sprang up through the roof-door; and, after some apparently earnest conversation with his hairy subjects, he again descended and informed me, that they had failed in their search, not having discovered the slightest trace of my horse. The state of agony into which I was plunged by this announcement, together with the loss of the last thing remaining to me, that had once belonged to my beloved Nina, assured me of the removal of the only means to which I had trusted for my extrication from the tangled recesses of this gloomy forest, no words can describe. Bell, for such was the name by which my sylvan host stated himself to have been called, seemed to participate sincerely in my affliction, and exerted himself to the uttermost to afford me consolation: he pressed me freely to partake of every thing which his humble means afforded, and assured me that I need not be under the apprehension of wanting for any thing, if I could but reconcile myself for a time to the mode of life to which he had been so long accustomed. No alternative was left me, and I therefore resigned myself, with as much composure as I could muster, to a fate from which I had now neither means nor hope of escape. The night soon drew near, and in a recess of the cave, parted from the rest by a rush mat, which served for a screen, Bell spread for me a bed of dry grass and leaves, which he covered over with skins; the latter being the spoils of various wild animals, caught in certain traps and pit-falls, which, with the aid of his rude band, he had managed to construct. We were sitting down to a supper of dried dates, cocoa-nuts, and other fruits, and a sort of wine which he had made from wild cherries, when we were disturbed by a loud tumult and confused chattering among the tribe assembled without. Bell, on hearing the commotion, turned pale, and seizing his club, quickly sprang towards the door. He had not quite ascended when I heard cries, which I immediately knew to proceed from a favourite hound, which had accompanied me in the chase of that morning, but of which I had lost sight at the moment when I was beset by the deputy killehdar and his party. The faithful creature, no doubt, had tracked me to my present retreat, by that sagacity so remarkably strong in the true bloodhound, and was now suffering from an attack of Bell's indiscriminating troop. I told him the dog was mine, and urged him to save his life, which he was just in time to effect, for the baboons were belabouring him with sticks, which they plied with a zeal and might that must have speedily resulted in the fracture of every bone in his body; and never shall I forget the extatic boundings and caperings with which the poor animal manifested its joy, on recognizing its master, in the moment of his being extricated from their vengeful clutches; and scarcely less extravagant were my own feelings of delight, in thus unexpectedly recovering the society of a tried, and trusty, and faithfully attached friend and servant. Having seen his whole company securely housed in a sort of wicker barrack, which he had constructed for their lodgment, Bell returned to the cave; and, having concluded the remainder of our repast, we soon afterwards betook ourselves to the couches which he had spread, respectively, for our night's repose.

CHAPTER VII.

"In the morning I was awakened from a protracted and refreshing sleep by Bell, who, in his sea slang, bade me to 'turn out,' for that he should soon 'pipe to breakfast.' On looking out, I beheld as fresh and lovely a morning as ever shone from the face of heaven; and, as soon as breakfast had been despatched, Bell suggested that, as in all probability I should remain with him some time, it would be as well that I should at once set about acquiring such a knowledge of his mode of living, and of the subjects over whom he presided, as might enable me to pass the time agreeably to myself. We accordingly went forth; but, on the moment of our appearance, strong symptoms were manifested of jealousy and alarm, both at me and my dog, and one of the hairy savages, who seemed to be an animal of some consequence among his fellows, hurled a ball, which struck me with considerable violence on the head, but it was immediately repaid with such a signal severity of chastisement from the cudgel of Bell, before the assembled herd of his hairy brethren, as effectually prevented the offence from being ever afterwards repeated. The forenoon was spent in making the circuit of the home dominion of this extraordinary Briton, and visiting the several stores, traps, and other works which it contained. Among the most striking objects of notice, was a river, which flowed at the distance of a mile from his dwelling, abounding with several varieties of the finest and most delicate fish, of which plenty were taken in nets, wove of twine, made from dry twisted grass by certain of his subjects, whom he had trained to that department of labour. Of this delicious supply, in addition to the other articles of food already enumerated, a portion was selected for dinner, and the remainder prepared and put aside for future meals. The many and ample facilities for supplying eveiy moderate want, of which I thus had evidence; the natural beauty of the scenery; the fertility of the soil; the cheerfulness and salubrity of the climate, and the peaceful serenity that seemed to prevail around, presented themselves as almost sufficient inducements to my mind to take up here my permanent abode. I had, indeed, no longer any ties of a domestic nature to bind me to society; the loss of Nina I had never hoped to be able to repair, and I now experienced a melancholy satisfaction in adverting to a remark of the Rajah's upon that event, -- 'that it might thereafter be found to involve a blessing instead of a misfortune,' -- the truth of which was apparent in my present circumstances; for how much better was it, that she should be, as now, at peace in the grave, than live a prey to the anguish unutterable, which my disappearance in a manner so sudden and unaccountable must have occasioned! Here, too, I was free from the apprehension of plots and machinations against my life, such as had every where attended me since my arrival in India; and the striking similarity of my present circumstances to those described, as having befallen the hero of some of the tales, the reading of which had delighted my youthful days, gave to the situation an air of romance, that was not without its charm. Such were the topics which, suggested themselves to my mind, while accompanying the forester in the tour of his little kingdom, and furnished me with matter for reflection after our return to the hut; and, but for the sense of weariness and languor, which a lengthened continuance of this tranquil solitude would be likely to produce in one accustomed to the stir, and bustle, and animation of a life of active business, such as the duties of the office I had so long filled necessarily involved, and the idea of insecurity against danger, from without, which would occasionally intrude, I could gladly at once and for ever have foregone, all thought and desire of again returning to the world. Another day or two passed in the enjoyment of the beauties of the surrounding country, and of the comforts which the generous hospitality of my entertainer was assiduously engaged in providing for me; and I began to feel not only reconciled, but cheerful in the perfect freedom from annoyance, anxiety, and restraint, and in the prospect before me of a life of undisturbed contentment; abundance of food, and in sufficient variety to satisfy the wants of any moderate man,being, at all times, to be procured with just so much of labour and change of occupation as would serve to prevent the time from hanging heavily on one's hands, and ample means surrounding me for effecting a variety of simple improvements and additions to the comforts of every member of this singular colony. From this period we lived together in the uninterrupted interchange of mutual kindness, our united exertions being constantly directed to the extension of our happiness and means of enjoyment, and to augmenting the security of our settlement. We maintained a steady discipline, and kept up the strictest observance of order and regularity among the hairy denizens of our state; and their activity, strength, and docility, and the .imitative faculties with which their species is so eminently gifted, certainly rendered them little inferior, in usefulness and knowledge, to hundreds of beings of the lower degrees in the scale of humanity, with whom I of necessity had to deal in the intercourse of society. By a regular distribution of time and labour, assigning certain periods of the day to work, fixed days to particular operations, and certain parties of our force to different kinds of industry, such as hunting, trapping, killing and skinning wild animals, catching and curing fish; gathering, drying, and storing the various fruits of the forest, in their respective seasons; collecting and stacking wood, dried grass and leaves, for household use; and the making and repairing of our huts, barracks, nets and tools, as occasion required, we were always well provided with every comfort applicable to our situation, and with enough of usefully directed employment to promote the mind's ease and the body's health. Months rolled away unobserved in this manner, and I perceived no abatement in the kind attentiveness and regard of Bell, though his habits appeared to have approximated to the wildness of the savage race with which he had so long been familiarized; and there were moments in which I thought that his mind was unhinged, and his reason, if not perverted, fallen below the ordinary level of the human race. At times he would remain long abstracted in fits of apparent deep and gloomy meditation; deep sobs, at intervals, would seem to almost rend his bosom, and the brief, passionate exclamations of 'home!''my country!' 'father!' 'mother!' would unconsciously escape him; then he would start up of a sudden, and, pacing up and down with hasty and unequal steps, break forth in hurried sentences of indistinct muttering; and, finally, worn out with the violence of his frenzied emotions, he would throw himself upon his couch, giving vent, in audible groans, to the anguish of his mental sufferings, till exhausted nature found relief by sinking into repose.

"It was about a twelvemonth after my first encountering Bell in his wildly sequestered retreat, that he one day abruptly terminated a long conversation about England, in which he had endeavoured to recount to me every incident of his life, expatiating on many passages with an unusual fervency of feeling, by uttering, in a tone of deeper melancholy than he was wont, his common exclamation of -- 'poor Bell!' and, from' that moment, I remarked an alarming change in his appearance. His face was overspread with a death-like ashy paleness; his features were marked with a strong expression of anxiety; and his eyes, suddenly distorted, rolled frightfully for a few seconds, and became afterwards fixed and glassy. In answer to my eager inquiry whether he was ill, he said there was nothing amiss -- that he felt a fullness and swimming in his head, but it was nothing more than the effects of a little over-excitement of the brain from excessive intension of thought, and all would pass away be. fore the morning. The involuntary depth and impressiveness of the tone in which these last words were pronounced alarmed me extremely at the moment; but my attention being diverted, by the remark with which he followed it, to some other irrelevant topic, the remainder of the evening passed off as usual, and each retiring to his own little recess, at an early hour, as we were wont, after meditating for some time upon the strange varieties of destiny by which the career of different men appears to be distinguished, and the really trivial difference in the value of the motives, conduct, and objects of nearly all, [ sunk into a profound sleep, which lasted until the morning. On awaking, I was surprised at the unusual lateness of the hour, and Bell not having appeared to call me, according to his general practice, I suddenly recollected his strange appearance and attack on the preceding evening, and, entering his apartment full of anticipating fears, found that he was dead! His features were scarcely altered; a little froth, slightly tinged with blood, having issued from the mouth, and a contraction of the legs, were the only external signs of the termination of life. I shook the body and called upon his name, but it was beyond the power of man to awaken him. I gazed on him long, in the fixed attitude of motionless despair; and when, at length, my reviving consciousness brought to mind the utter loneliness in which I was now left, in a paroxysm of horrid frenzy, I seized my sabre, and in the act of stooping to throw myself upon its point, was met by the caresses of my faithful dog, which, springing up from the ground, placed his paws upon my shoulders, repeatedly licked my cheek and hands, and, with a piteous whining moan, looked wistfully in my face, as if upbraiding me with the selfishness of feeling which prompted my present intention, and with the ingratitude of thus proposing to leave an attached and faithful servant, a lone and helpless victim, in the power of a host of remorseless enemies. The self-reflecting impulse, which this movement of my dumb monitor communicated to my mind, quickly brought it back to reason; and, casting the weapon aside, I threw myself upon a seat by the lifeless remains of poor Bell, and the agony of my grief-swollen heart found relief in a torrent of tears. My affliction was extreme; but when the first burst of passionate sorrow had subsided, I remembered the invitation to 'call, in the day of distress,' upon one who is merciful and potent to save, and, pouring out my soul in prayer to that overruling Providence, whose protecting care I had experienced in my deliverance from so many past difficulties, I quickly found my spirits tranquillized, and derived a pleasing satisfaction from the reflection, that my presence had cheered the latter days and administered comfort to the closing period of the earthly existence of one to whom this world had proved, indeed, a vale of sorrow. Poor Bell! his life had been a constant series of hardships, danger, and privation. Bred to the sea, his youth and prime of life had been spent in perils and vicissitudes among strangers, away from home, a wanderer of the deep; and when, in the freshness and vigour of manhood, his period of servitude expired, returning from a long and fatiguing voyage, his heart elate with hope, and his bosom swelling with anticipations of joy, from the expected meeting with his family, his fond hopes were blighted by the ruthless system of impressment, by which the hardy mariners of his country, whose commerce is sustained and enriched by their labours, torn from their peaceful barques at the moment of their return from their distant voyages, when on the point of realizing the fruits of their hard and perilous labours, are consigned to the iron bondage of the service of its ships of war, which the capricious tyranny of those entrusted with command too often renders a condition of galling, intolerable, and hopeless slavery. So it proved in the case of poor Bell, who, to escape from its horrors, when he found them no longer endurable, had been compelled to seek refuge in the wild recesses of an Indian forest, a solitary outcast from the society of his fellow men!

"Rousing myself, at length, from the train of melancholy reflections in which I had been plunged by this mournful event, I went forth, and, with the aid of some of my brute subjects, prepared a grave, to which, in the evening, I committed the body of my late companion and friend, amidst the assemblage of that wild tribe which he had trained to such an extraordinary degree of docility and discipline, the poor creatures looking on in silent and observant wonder, apparently not unconscious of the nature of the "change in the earthly portion of their late ruler. Planting his grave with boughs, I saw the whole company housed in their quarters, and then, returning to the cave, pondered anew on the peculiarities of my lonely condition; and it was not until after many hours of sad and mournful reflection, that exhausted nature found rest in sleep. The return of day recalled me to a sense of the duties which had now devolved upon me, and of the exertions required for their adequate discharge. My situation, though altogether new to me in fact, was not entirely so in speculation. More than one book of adventures which I had read, besides the personal narrative of my late companion, and my own experience and observation since I had become a denizen of these wilds, had tended to familiarize me with it in idea; and when I contrasted the perfect and undisturbed tranquillity, and abundant means of comfort within my reach, -- notwithstanding the utter separation these implied from all converse with my kind, -- with the risk and labour consequent on any attempt to recover my position in society, and the tumult and anxiety that must await me, even should my endeavours be crowned with the most perfect success, I found little difficulty in reconciling myself to the sacrifice of all the advantages which society could present to me, with their contingent evils, for the sake of the certain peace and modified enjoyment within my reach. My mind thus once made up, as my future comfort must wholly depend on my retaining the submission and good-will of the beings in so extraordinary a manner committed to my charge, I immediately set about exercising my authority, in the superintendence and direction of their movements in the customary routine of their daily labour, in the departments severally assigned them, treating them with all possible kindness, consistent with the avoidance of any laxity that might lead to a diminution of discipline and good order. I soon experienced the want of a domestic servant: the severity with which Bell had frequently punished attempted intrusion having rendered them, seemingly, unwilling to enter my cabin. One day, however, having been longer than usual absent from home, attended, as I had supposed, by the whole of my subjects in their respective stations, I found, on my return, one large baboon lying upon the floor of my apartment in a state of insensibility from drunkenness, caused by his having quaffed the contents of several shells filled with the liquor which Bell had taught me to prepare from the wild cherry. I bound him hand and foot, and it was many hours before he recovered from the effects of his debauch. When he seemed perfectly restored to his ordinary state of consciousness, I loosened his bonds, and ordered him to lie down on a skin which I had spread for him in a corner of the cave, for the purpose of sleep. I found him perfectly obedient and tractable, and, retaining him in my cabin, soon rendered him tolerably expert in the performance of those offices in which my domestic comfort required such assistance. He grew very attentive and faithfully attached to me, and I found him highly useful in communicating between me and his fellows, who improved greatly in regularity, promptitude, vigilance, and efficiency in the discharge of all their duties and exercises. Wild beasts seemed wholly expelled from the precincts of our comparatively civilized community, and no sooner was any unfortunate straggler observed within our limits, than the vollies of hard clay balls with which he was assailed, enforced his speedy retreat, and effectually secured us against a repetition of his visits.

CHAPTER VIII.

"Many months were thus passed by me in the full possession of as much comfort and enjoyment as man, in such a situation, could possibly look for, or desire. My wants of every kind were abundantly supplied, and from danger I felt tolerably secure; and had I but the society of one rational being with whom I could indulge in the interchange of thought and feeling, my happiness had been complete. For the want of some such channel of communication, through which the current of my thoughts might be diverted, my mind, absorbed in its own reflections, became clouded and disturbed, and I was often on the point of resolving, with the aid of my sylvan troop, to attempt to regain the open and settled country, but was as often restrained by the apprehension that, to quit my present retreat for a return to the dominions of any of the native potentates of India, might prove but an exchange of peace and safety in solitude, for toil, anxiety, insecurity, and misfortune, amidst the distracting whirl and bustle of society.

"Strolling one day in the forest, accompanied by my dog and domesticated baboon, I had fallen into a vein of deep musing on the subject of a return to my native country, in which state of abstraction I know not how long I had continued, when I was aroused by the sudden barking of my dog. A party of my wild guards, who were in attendance, charged their slings and were instantly on the alert; and, raising my club, I stood in readiness for action, but, on looking carefully around, could discern no object to excite attention or alarm, and I began to think the hound had been merely indulging in some momentary whim. On reaching, however, a sudden turn in the path along which we were proceeding, I saw, at some distance in advance, a female figure slowly receding from the place where I stood, with her arms folded, her head declining, and her whole appearance indicating one rapt in deep thought. The dog no sooner perceived her than he again barked and sprang forward; the female, looking back, screamed aloud, and instantly fled at her utmost speed; and, recalling the dog, I pursued the lonely fugitive which had thus, unexpectedly, invaded my solitude. I quickly overtook the flying fair one, who was so entirely overcome with (ear, that it was long ere I could restore her to a moderate degree of composure. Having succeeded, at length, in soothing her alarm, I, with much entreaty and the most earnest assurances of safety and protection, prevailed on her to accompany me to my dwelling, to partake of some refreshment. After her repast she gradually became more communicative in answer to my inquiries, and at length entered freely into conversation. Her person was finely formed, and her features extremely beautiful, of a rather melancholy cast when in repose, but lighted up with a degree of vivacity bordering upon wildness under the varying impulses of her change of feeling, the quickness of which denoted a mind extremely susceptible of excitement, and an ardently romantic temper. Adverting to the singularity of our meeting, she inquired into the circumstances which had led to my settlement in that secluded spot; and, when I had made her acquainted with the leading incidents of my eventful life, she did not affect to conceal the deep interest which she felt in the narrative, but most ingenuously told me that it filled her with delight to find, in the sketch of my history, with which I had been pleased to favour her, the realization of one of those romantic dreams which had often formed the subject of her lonely meditations on the possibility of a human being, lost in the inextricable mazes of those immense forests, overcoming the difficulties, fatigue, and danger of such a situation, and sustaining life, and health, and strength, and at length effecting a permanent and comparatively happy exchange of a life of restraint for one of perfect freedom. Reserve being thus banished from our conversation, she gave me the fullest information respecting her family and connexions, whom she described as inhabiting a village much nearer than I had imagined myself to be to the haunts of men. She said they had often tried to check and restrain her from indulging in the romantic tendencies of her disposition, the natural strength of which had been greatly increased by her habitual wanderings amid the wild and splendid scenery of the neighbouring country, which was eminently calculated to produce the most powerful impressions. Each succeeding moment imperceptibly strengthened the mutual sympathy thus developed between us, and night at length surprised us ere yet our conversation was near its close. The joyful sensations I experienced in thus unexpectedly encountering a being, whose beauty and gentleness were peculiarly adapted to my taste, it were vain, as it is needless, to attempt to describe. Beneath the star-lit canopy of a pure and bright eastern sky we joined our hands, and, in the presence of the divine author and ruler of that nature, some of the most beautiful and brilliant of whose charms then surrounded us, we breathed our vows of that mutual fidelity and attachment which we thus solemnly pledged to each other. Thus was I again blessed with the society of a friend and companion, whose tenderness and affection supplying the void in my bosom, seemed to leave nothing wanting to complete my happiness. Twelve months we passed in uninterrupted tranquillity and content, at the end of which period my Minor gave birth to a daughter, which proved healthy and thriving, and rapidly grew a charming infant model of her mother's loveliness. But the morbid excitement to which that mother's mind had ever been peculiarly subject, was greatly increased, and her intellect became manifestly impaired through the workings of her fancy, distempered by occasional strongly-revived recollections of that world which we had both made up our minds wholly to renounce. The third year of our union ended in a further increase of our family, by the birth of a son, which, however, after a few months, pined and died. A striking alteration ensued in the manners and appearance of Minor; and, from that time, she gradually sunk into a state of moody apathy, from which I vainly exerted every effort to arouse her, fearing it would terminate in settled mental derangement. When I urged her to go forth from our hut, for exercise or change of air, she would steadfastly refuse, saying her father and brothers were lurking in ambush in the vicinity, and would capture and carry her off if she ventured abroad. At other times she would sit silently for hours, gazing fixedly upon vacancy, and answer me, when I spoke, with loud bursts of wild and hurried laughter, sinking afterwards into a deeper gloom. Many months had we lived in this state, when, finding my own mind was beginning to suffer, and its energies to be impaired, from the influence of Minor's disordered reason, I seriously thought of endeavouring to discover her family; though the vague and incoherent descriptions which she had given me of the village where they dwelt, left me wholly uncertain in what direction they might be sought with the greatest likelihood of success.

"One morning I found, as I thought, very sensible indications of improvement in the state of her mind; and, on my telling her that I would go out for the purpose of gathering in a stock of certain fruits, she appeared to receive the announcement with satisfaction. I accordingly proceeded on my errand, which occupied me several hours; and on my return I found, to my unspeakable anguish and astonishment, that she was missing, though her infant remained sleeping in its crib. Hoping that she might only have gone forth for the purpose of a temporary walk, I awaited her return with hourly increasing anxiety, and at length proceeded to search for her, in a circuit of considerable extent; but, failing to discover the slightest vestige of her course, I returned to the hut. and, stilling the cries of the child, giving it food and soothing it to slumber, I sat down, and remained plunged in gloomy reverie until the morning dawned, when I again set out in pursuit of the beloved object of my fond solicitude."

Thus far the narrative in the manuscript found in the pack of the Forester. The mind of the reader will readily suggest what may be wanted to fill up the brief interval of separation which ensued, till their final reunion and death, with the closing scene of which he is already acquainted.

Such were the extraordinary adventures of two singular beings, whose lives were a practical, though romantic, illustration of the truth of the saying, that "we know not what a day may bring forth." After their decease, the retreat in the forest was again abandoned to its original tenants. -- the hairy race, whom Bell and Villency had trained in a species of rude and incipient civilization; but its history, even now, is frequently referred to in conversation at Ettaundah, in Nepaul.

THE VILLAGE QUEEN; OR, THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER.

In the small town of Sumpter, lived a shepherd named Heerah-mul, celebrated for his skill in the rearing of his flocks; the excellence of whose breed being well-known in the markets of that country, ensured him a ready sale for whatever stock he offered to dispose of, at such prices as enabled him, from the profits, to realize a competence for the maintainance and establishment of his family, in ease and comfort. But a treasure not less rich, though perhaps not more prized, was that which he possessed in his daughter Reetah; a renown more enviable, though probably less coveted, was that which he deprived from the general admiration in which she was held, not only for her personal charms, but, even more, for the virtues which enriched and adorned her mind. Her figure was tall, but well formed and of admirable proportions, and her features were finely moulded. Ingenuousness was stamped upon her brow; a meek and placid gentleness of spirit shone in her full dark eye; the ruddy tinge of health glowed through the clear brown of her beautiful cheek; a cheerful smile seemed ever ready to play around her mouth; and her whole countenance breathed an expression of mildness, benevolence, and tranquil contentment. She had an only brother named Puglah, of weak intellect, but gifted with an occasional instinctive shrewdness, such as is often observable, to an extraordinary degree, in persons whose reasoning faculties are defective. He was a strong and well-built youth, agile and swift of foot, and wholly insensible to danger. He usually carried a long stout stick, and, unprovided with any other weapon, would unhesitatingly attack the fiercest prowler of the forest. He had a great dislike to strangers, at the approach of whom he would almost invariably brandish his club and manifest other signs of irritation, unless restrained by his sister, to whom he was at all times under perfect control, even in the fiercest bursts of passion into which the rudeness of strangers, or the wanton insolence of thoughtless and unfeeling individuals, would sometimes hurry him. She patiently bore with his tediousness, humoured him in his fits of wayward moodiness, regarded his weaknesses with indulgence, and watched the flighty wanderings of his mind, with the most tender and attentive solicitude. He was not insensible of her kindness and affection; and it is not therefore to be wondered at, that he, in return, was strongly attached to her, and was her constant companion while tending her father's flocks, often amusing as well as affording her protection by his presence.

Reetah attained her fifteenth year without any incident of striking peculiarity, except the presentation of a distinctive ornamental head-dress, consisting of a sort of crown of green velvet decorated with mock pearls, to be worn on occasions of local festivity, by the unanimous desire of the young females of the village, by whom, on account of her acknowledged superior beauty and intelligence, and benevolence of her disposition, she was saluted by the title of "The Village Queen;" for such was the influence which these had acquired for her on the minds of her companions, that to her judgment they uniformly had recourse for counsel in their difficulties, as well as for aid in their periods of distress, and both were alike willingly, though with diffidence and meekness, accorded. The cry of distress found in her a willing and patient listener; the couch of sickness and the pallet of declining age, a most constant, tender, and attentive visitant; and the necessities of the indigent and infirm, their most prompt and persuasive advocate with their wealthier neighbours, by whom her appeals for their charitable assistance were seldom disregarded. Thus she grew up beloved and esteemed by all, who yielded to the conviction of her worth and goodness a tribute of affectionate respect, such as never could be wrung from either fear or self-interest, and her youthful days flowed on in usefulness and peace. Her father was a man of gloomy temper and austere manners, but even the ruggedness of his nature, yielding to the sweetness of her disposition, seemed smoothed into gentleness in her presence; and, even when most fretted by the losses and vexatious contingencies, to which the precarious nature of his dealings and pursuits rendered him peculiarly liable, her soothing accents failed not to allay the peevishness of his ruffled spirit. Nor, though fully sensible of the value and importance of her services to his domestic comfort, and to the prosperity of his business concerns, had the avariciousness of his nature or his greediness of gain led him, even in thought, or but for a moment, to contemplate any tyrannical control or interference with her free judgment, upon the various matrimonial offers submitted to her choice. Many were the suitors whose proposals, though tempting, as far as wealth and worldly advantages were concerned, she had declined; not in disdain, but from a wish to remain in her present state of undisturbed serenity and quiet usefulness. But there was one among them for whom she entertained a sincere regard, and to whose overtures she had listened with emotions of tenderness, which, however, she had been induced to suppress, by the air of coolness and extreme caution with which they were made, leaving her in doubt whether to ascribe it to coldness and insincerity, or to diffidence and natural reserve.

An unfavourable season which ensued caused considerable injury to the stock of Heerah-mul; and, the supplies which his flocks enabled him to bring to market no longer equalling their former extent and quality, his circumstances declined, and approaching embarrassments compelled him to retrench his expenditure within the limits of the most rigid economy. The utmost exertions of that nature, however, were insufficient to repair the serious losses which he had sustained, and the inroads upon his means, which the ravages of mortality among his stock continued to make. It was then, and not until then, that the. thought occurred to him, that a prudent management of his daughter's marriage might be turned to account in renovating his shattered substance. He had noticed, though in silence, her rejection of the proposals of Putchcowree, who was the son of an opulent and highly respected neighbour, and he had observed that that young man's offer had made a deeper impression on her mind than that of any other aspirant to her hand. It struck him, therefore, that if he could bring about a renewal of Putchcowree's addresses, his object might be attained by quickening his daughters predisposition in the young man's favour, without any perceptible exercise of either influence or authority, to awaken the suspicion of interference on his part.

Upon this view, accordingly, he at once resolved to act; and, when next he saw his daughter, leading the conversation from one neighhour's family to another's, he at length, without any appearance of premeditation or design, adverted to Putchcowree; observing, in reference to the offer which the latter had recently made to her, that he hoped her declining it had not proceeded from a misapprehension of his character, wherein the self-abashing timidity of true love had been interpreted as the absence of real affection, for he could hardly believe that the ingenuousness of Putchcowree's nature would ever have permitted him to feign a passion which he did not feel. The chord of affection once awakened in a woman's heart may have long lain mute, but its vibration will be again renewed by the slightest touch of sympathy; and so it fell with Reetah. The tone of kindness in which her father spoke, while treating of the subject on which her heart had often wished to dwell, surprised her with delight; and, in the unsuspecting confidence of the moment, she revealed the true state of her thoughts and inclinations in the matter, to the covert scrutiny of her undoubtedly affectionate, though somewhat selfish and calculating, parent. Shortly afterwards, overtaking Putchcowree in a retired spot, Heerah-mul observed a striking alteration in his appearance and evident dejection in his manner; and, his usual salutation having been answered in an unusually languid tone, he, with an earnestness of manner having all the appearance of friendly interest and concern, inquired the nature of his illness and the cause of his seeming unhappiness. The desponding youth, whose health was indeed impaired by the wasting effects of blighted hopes, touched by the manifestation of sympathy with his sufferings, thus exhibited by the father of her he loved, at once replied that his disease was in the heart -- that Reetah was its cause -- and that with her alone rested the means of its cure. The wily shepherd affected to treat this reference to his daughter as a piece of pleasantry; and, declaring that Reetah was too tender-hearted to he capable of wilfully causing such affliction to any one, recommended Putchcowree to try the effect of presenting himself before her with that rueful visage, that grief-stricken person and woebegone air, and he would engage, if there were any truth in the statement of her being the cause of his grief, that, putting the benevolence and compassionate disposition of her nature out of consideration, the fear of incurring the guilt of murder would speedily cause her to relent. The object of this ill-timed merriment, under the impression that his ill-fated passion and pretensions were treated as a subject of mockery and derision, became exceedingly agitated, and his feelings being at length overpowered, he staggered, and was on the point of falling to the ground. Heerah-mul, apprehensive that he might have touched with too rude a hand the extremely delicate and over-excited sensibility of his patient, with expressions of alarm hastened to support the fainting youth and, in soothing tones of encouragement to the exertion, invited him to rest awhile at his cottage, which was at no great distance, whither they accordingly proceeded.

On a seat of split bamboo, outside the neat but humble dwelling of her father, sat Reetah; -- her face upraised and resting on one hand, her full dark eye fixed with observant look upon the changeful forms and varying tints of the western clouds, now blazing with the momentary splendour caught from the last rays of the sun's departing light. The sound of approaching footsteps suddenly arrested her attention, and, perceiving a stranger in company with her father,' she arose and glided into the interior of the cottage, which they also entered. The agitation of Putchcowree's feelings became too great for the present reduced condition of his frame, and his fainting strength just enabled him to totter to the nearest seat, upon which he sunk exhausted. The call of her father quickly brought Reetah, with water and other restoratives, to the aid of their ailing visitor whom the increasing darkness of the evening prevented her from recognizing. The attentions anxiously bestowed, by both father and daughter, in chafing his temples, in the application of pungent aromatics to the nostrils, and in the use of other restorative stimulants resorted to on such occasions, soon succeeded in reviving the stranger; and the mutual embarrassment which succeeded, when, on the lighting of the lamp, they fully recognized each other, may be better conceived than described. The mute expression of his kindling eye spoke, far more powerfully than language could, the grateful feelings that glowed within his breast; and the dumb eloquence of her modest downcast look told, no less plainly that he was understood. By way of introduction to the explanations which he saw were needed, the shepherd now informed his daughter that, having accidentally met with Putchcowree, he had been much amused by the latter informing him, in answer to his inquiry as to the nature of the malady under which it was evident he had lately been suffering, that she alone had the power to effect his cure; and, in order that, if it were really so, there might be as little delay as possible of his restoration to health, he had brought him thither that he might have the opportunity of stating his case at once.

The heart of Putchcowree was now filled to overflowing. "Fair daughter of Heerah-mul," he said, "true it is, that to you I referred as the cause of my suffering, but not in the tone of either reproach or complaint. Six moons have now waned since, charmed by the many beauties of your mind as well as person, I made you the offer of my hand, in pledge of the affection with which you were cherished in my heart. That offer you rejected; and knowing, from my own experience, how little either liking or aversion is the result of any act of our will, while I listened to your decision, I felt that no thought of animosity or resentment could find place in my bosom against you, for giving utterance to a decree which superior control had fated, even should its dearest hopes be doomed to wither. Such, indeed, has been their doom; and life has now no more of joy or happiness for me, except in some change, unlooked for, of your mind in my regard."

The modest blush that deepened the natural colouring of her cheek; the tremor of the lids that veiled her half-averted eyes; the undulating motion of the folds that draperied her bust, but could not conceal its throbbings, betrayed, ere her words found utterance, the gentle tumult of pleasing emotions that were astir within. At length she said, "If I had thought that my refusal could give you pain, I might, perhaps, have taken time to consider before I uttered it; for none can have a right, through wilfulness or caprice, to inflict on others any suffering that may be avoided. Affliction, however, and evil beyond what even enmity or hatred might desire, may, it seems, at times, through mistake, be caused where no ill-will nor even dislike exists."

"Not even dislike!" said Putchcowree, whose eye flashed radiantly with the sudden gleam of hope that animated his bosom; "may I then ask from what else it may have proceeded?"

"It is better," said Heerah-mul, interruptingly, "that I should withdraw from a conversation in which I can take no part, except, perhaps, by interposing a caution against this accidental meeting being allowed to hasten a rash decision. Be careful in avoiding any illusive encouragement to reviving hopes on the one hand, and any vain indulgence of unfounded expectations on the other." He then withdrew, secretly exulting in the anticipated success of a scheme as adroitly managed as it was cunningly contrived.

"Believe me," said Reetah, in answer to the question repeated by Putchcowree, after her father had retired, "I was not insensible either of your merits which are so generally acknowledged, or of the flattering nature of the proposals with which your kindness induced you to approach me, and for which, I will not affect to deny, you were entitled to the warmest acknowledgments of my gratitude; and, indeed, had it not been that I imagined, perhaps, my pride was piqued by an appearance of cautious reserve, which it interpreted as coldness or indifference at heart, I know not -- but -- that -- "

"The result might have been different," said the enraptured Putchcowree, eagerly filling up the interval of her hesitation, while he fondly pressed her hand between his own. "Oh! how far you were, indeed, from divining the true nature of my passion, and the real cause of that apparent reserve of which you complain, as an indication of coldness or indifference! Regarding only the exalted merits of the object on which my affections were fixed, I feared to offend her delicacy by the rashness of my pretensions, and dreaded the thought of being deemed presumptuous, in soaring to a height which, amid the multitude of aspirants, I could scarcely indulge a hope of attaining. Thus, in the avoidance of one extreme I fell into the other; and, studiously shunning the exhibition of impetuosity or excessive ardour, I unconsciously incurred the suspicion of coldness and indifference, while, in truth, never was affection more pure, more ardent, or sincere than that which I then felt, and still feel for you, my beloved Reetah I -- "

"I much fear," said Reetah, while her eye met his in a glance that spoke a language of warmer encouragement than her tongue, "that partiality may have influenced and greatly exaggerated your estimate of my merits, and that experience might prove me to be unworthy of your preference."

"Of that I am not in the least apprehensive, replied Putchcowree; "but relieve my bosom from the load of anxiety with which doubt oppresses it, and if a life of respectful kindness a and affectionate attention can contribute to your happiness, gladly will I abide the event of the judgment I have formed; and, therefore, I once more pledge you my affection, in constancy and truth, and ask in return the hand of our lovely Village Queen."

Reetah blushed and, with a downcast look and gentle smile, extending her hand, softly answered -- "it is your's."

The overjoyed Putchcowree pressed her to his breast and, while he clasped her in that close embrace, imprinted on her lips a glowing kiss, that caused her blood to mantle, in burning blushes, over her cheek.

At this moment Heerah-mul returned, and in the altered manners and regard of both, quickly discerned the change, which had been wrought in their relative positions to each other. Putchcowree shortly afterwards took his leave for the night, and Reetah hastened to inform her father of the course which their explanatory conference had taken, ending in her acknowledgment of her preference for Putchcowree and her acceptance of his choice. The old man professed himself agreeably surprised with her communication, and said that he had always desired that, in her selection of a partner among the many proposals that were offered to her, she should be guided entirely by her own judgment, free of all bias of any kind from him; he hoped, however, that he might still claim the privilege, whenever they should make up their minds to be married, of fixing the day on which the ceremony should take place. The most perfect submission to his wishes, in that respect, was readily promised; and both the shepherd and his daughter seemed alike well pleased with the result of this meeting, so accidentally brought about. The intercourse between the lovers became henceforth regular and constant; the recovery of his peace of mind and his prospects of future happiness, effected a wonderfully rapid improvement in the appearance of Putchcowree; and it soon became known throughout the village, that he was shortly to be united to Reetah.

It too often happens, that what men regard as the foundation of their worldly happiness, draws upon them the jealousy and ill-will of others; and, among the multitude of disappointed suitors for the hand of Reetah, it is not to be wondered, if there were some whom the success of Putchcowree inflamed with a desire and determination of revenge against both. "Whereever there is a will, there is a way," says the proverb; and the mind that is bent upon the accomplishment of any purpose, however mischievous or wicked, will seldom be at fault for the means of working out its design: the choice of these will often be decided by opportunity.

Shortly after the announcement of the intended marriage of lteetah and Putchcowree, the young couple were seated under the shade of a spreading banyan tree, near the house of Heerah-mul, entertaining each other in sweet converse at the smiling hour of eve, when three persons, strangers in appearance, who had cast, in passing, a glance at Putchcowree, suddenly turned back; and one of them, an aged looking man, approaching Reetah, inquired if she could direct them to the residence of a young man named Putchcowree. There was an air of mysterious solemnity in the manner of putting the question, which somewhat alarmed her; and answering, evasively, that he was a friend of her's, she asked, in return, the reason for making the inquiry.

"The nature of our business," said a younger one of the party, "you must then excuse us from unfolding, involving, as it does, conduct which, as being a friend of the party, must needs be offensive to your ears."

"Then, perhaps," said Putchcowree, rising, "you will please to inform me, as I am deeply concerned in every thing relating to the conduct of the person whose name you have mentioned."

"And wherefore," said the old man, "should a matter, in its nature private and, perhaps, of importance, be confided to you, of whom we know nothing?"

"Because," replied Putchcowree, "having the confidence of him whom you have named, I can thoroughly understand whatever you may have to communicate, and stand here prepared to defend his character."

"The defence of a character that is bad," retorted the former speaker, "is an undertaking not less desperate than unjust."

"I am ready," said Putchcowree, "at once to meet whatever you can advance. In me behold the man you seek."

The old man then bade him to reflect upon the repeated acts of manifold baseness, profligacy, and treachery that he had committed, of which his own consciousness would, he said, spare him the painful and disgusting task of enumerating the particulars. During the latter part of this dialogue Reetah had remained fixed in her seat, motionless from the surprise which the suddenness of these charges, no less than the boldness with which they were made and the nature of the guilt which they insinuated, had occasioned; and the visible anxiety which she evinced emboldened the speaker thus to proceed.

"Thou knowest too the young and lovely Reetah, whose too confiding innocence thou hast betrayed, alluring her, like my now wretched daughter, to misery and ruin."

"Breathe but that name again, old man," said the exasperated Putchcowree, "and not even thy grey hairs shall protect thee from the chastisement due to the envenomed falsehood of thy calumnious assertions." .

"Put a bridle on thy tongue, rash youth," said another of the party, "and a curb upon thy lips, lest the threats to which they give utterance draw upon thy head the just punishment of persevering insolence. Thou hast heard the proof of the accusation which we have made."

"I fear not, cowardly assassins, though there be three of ye," said Putchcovvree, advancing towards the old man, "and I will vindicate my own character, and that of her whom you have dared so insultingly to traduce, even at the hazard of my life."

A scream from Reetah at this moment arrested the attention of her brother, who was with the flock at a short distance, and in a second he was by her side. The instant he caught sight of the old man, he fixed upon his countenance a scrutinizing gaze, then sprang towards him, and tearing off his false grey hair and flowing beard, disclosed, in the garb of a venerable and zealous accuser, one of the lately discarded suitors of Reetah who was also an acquaintance of Putchcowree. Puglah's club was raised for the infliction of immediate vengeance, but Reetah interposing, averted the threatened blow and, confounded by the turn which affairs had unexpectedly taken, and fearful also of the consequences of a similar recognition, the yet undiscovered companions of the spoiled masquerader effected a precipitate retreat, followed, with an exemplary rivalry in activity and vigour, by the individual whose youthful appearance had been so quickly and astonishingly regenerated. Thewig and beard, the spoils of the vanquished in this affair, remained with Puglah, who availed himself of them in the exhibition of a variety of antics, that yielded no small amusement to his sister and her swain.

Previously to this event, several sheep belonging to Heerah-mul had died suddenly, without any apparent predisposition to disease, and with no external symptoms to indicate the cause of the mortality. The communication, however, of what had now occurred, which was made to him by Reetah, manifesting, as it did, the agency of malice operating by covert means, for the destruction or annoyance of the peace of the family, excited his suspicions; and when Puglah, returning home after folding the flocks, reported that several more sheep had been found dead, he resolved upon making a minute investigation of the cause of such havoc. The carcases were accordingly examined, and in their stomachs, when opened, there was found a quantity of a peculiar species of red grass, well known for its quality as a deadly poison, but growing nowhere in the neighbourhood of that part of the country. It was now clear that the destruction of his stock, in which the whole wealth and resources of his family consisted, was intended, and that the parties in the design could afford to incur considerable trouble and expence for its accomplishment, the nearest part of the district from which the weed in question could be procured being at least one hundred miles from Sumpter. Suspicion naturally pointed to the three performers in the masquerading adventure, as the persons probably engaged in this nefarious scheme; but some more direct evidence to connect them with it, was deemed necessary, to warrant their being subjected to so serious a charge. No notice, therefore, was taken of the circumstance publicly; but a watch was placed over the pasture grounds, on which it was conjectured the noxious grass had been scattered during the night. The watchers had continued for some time nightly to occupy their post, without discovering any thing to lead to the detection of the perpetrators of the mischief, although their vigilance was unremitting; and Heerah-mul, at length began to think, that the malice of his secret enemies was sated or had subsided, and that the danger was consequently past.

The appointed day for the nuptials of Reetah and Putchcowree arrived, and the ceremony was performed at a village at some distance, where the young couple sojourned for a few days; and on their return to Sumpter, a numerous body of their relations, friends, and acquaintances went out in procession to meet them, and to escort them to their home, with the pomp and festivity customary, in the east, upon such occasions. Several weeks had rolled away, with increasing content and happiness to the family, and Reetah beheld with satisfaction the immediate results of the alliance she had formed, in the rapid and visible improvement of her father's circumstances derived from the fortune and personal asssistance of Putchcowree, which had not only repaired all his recent losses, but seemed to have secured to him the reasonable expectation of a lasting increase of wealth. Heerah-mul, too, looked upon this change of his prospects rejoicingly; and, as selfish minds are apt to do, placed to the credit of his own sagacity and foresight in devising the match, and his skilful management in conducting it to a successful issue, not only the actual gain which he had calculated on its yielding to himself, but also the perfect realization of comfort and happiness to his daughter, thus in appearance, permanently established, which had not been included among the items of his speculation. Nothing could exceed the exultation and delight of his self-complacency in considering the effects which his plan had produced. The soothing calm of these delicious day-dreams was, however, fated to be at length disturbed. Revenge and calumny seemed but to have slumbered awhile, to abide an occasion when the increased extent and thriving condition of the joint property, invested in their flocks, might afford a wider sweep of destruction to the stroke of the former, while the blight of the latter might be the more keenly felt, from the fullness of promise, in the blossoming of that harvest of domestic bliss which it sought to wither. The hand of the poisoner was again at work, scathing the flocks with fearful ravage; and the tongue of the slanderer was both subtle and assiduous in the diffusion of its envenomed breathings to sully the character of Putchcowree.

The watch was therefore renewed on the walks where the flocks of Heerah-mul were pastured; and on the third night of their watching, the persons on the look out observed three figures, dressed as priests, moving in the moonlight across the field, whom, by following the preconcerted arrangements, they succeeded in securing. They appeared to have nothing in their possession that could lead to an inference of their guilt; but, upon examination of their persons, the garb in which they were enveloped proved to be a mere disguise, and they turned out to be the same parties who had been foiled in their abominable attempt to excite in the mind of Reetah suspicions injurious to Putchcowree's character, previous to their marriage. Torches were therefore immediately procured and, the grounds being searched, a considerable quantity of the poisonous grass was found, scattered over the surface. The prisoners were then carried before the tannahdar (head of the police) of the district, who resided in the fort at Sumpter, and, upon being made acquainted with the circumstances under which they were apprehended, he ordered them to be detained; and the affair being on the day following reported to the Rajah, he appointed a subsequent day for their trial, at an interval which would give the injured party time to make inquiry and procure the attendance of witnesses. That day drew near, and no clue had been discovered to lead to any positive proof of identity or connexion of the prisoners with the parties by whom the sheep had been poisoned; and, emboldened by the knowledge of this defect in the evidence, the fiercest threats of implacable enmity and revenge were indulged in by the friends of the accused.

On the evening preceding the trial, as Reetah, accompanied by her husband and her brother, was returning into Sumpter from a walk in the environs, a stranger passed them, whose dress and appearance were clearly not those of an inhabitant. He had a bag on his shoulder, and his evident anxiety to avoid observation attracted the notice of the party, whose minds had, from recent events, become peculiarly sensitive to circumstances of suspicion. Putchcowree accordingly determined at once to accost the stranger, who, unable to conceal his mortification at being noticed, became so confused in his answers to the mere ordinary inquiries which an officious spirit of kindness might have prompted as, at length, to induce Putchcowree to put the direct question of what the bag contained. An indignant refusal to state the nature of its contents was the answer, which was no sooner given than Puglah seized the bag, which the stranger immediately let go, and, under cover of the growing darkness, fled at his utmost speed, towards a thick wood which was at no great distance. Puglah, dropping the bag, instantly pursued him, and both quickly disappeared in the obscurity of the thicket. Putchcowree opened the bag, and under some old articles of wearing apparel, found in it a quantity of the same sort of poisonous red grass as had been employed in the destruction of their flocks. This discovery at once connected the fugitive, either as a principal or accomplice, with the poisoning of the sheep. The bag was, therefore, immediately conveyed to the office of the tannahdar, and a number of the peons (police soldiers,) in his employ were promptly despatched in pursuit of the stranger. They had penetrated to a considerable distance into the recesses of the wood, without discovering the object of their search, and anxiety for the fate of Puglah was excited to the extreme, as his extraordinary swiftness of foot left no doubt of his overtaking the flying stranger, who it was supposed would not hesitate to take his life, in order to secure his own escape. The density of the wood, too, increasing as they advanced, every succeeding moment involved them in more perplexing obscurity, and they were on the point of abandoning all further search as hopeless, when a sudden turn brought them to the opening of a glade, where a rustling sound caught their attention, and, on proceeding towards the spot whence it seemed to issue, they discovered Puglah, standing over the prostrate stranger, and the blood flowing from a wound in his side. The fallen man, who was in a state of insensibility from the stunning effects of a blow on the head, was secured without further difficulty, and immediately carried towards Sumpter; and the bleeding of Puglah's wound being stanched, the party retraced their steps, and in a short time regained the town. From Puglah's account it appeared that, on overtaking the prisoner in the wood, he attempted to seize him, and in doing so received in the lower part of his side a stab aimed at his heart. Feeling himself wounded, he immediately felled the prisoner to the earth with a blow of his club, which deprived him of his senses, nor was he restored to consciousness until some time after he had been lodged at the tanna, and then to all attempts to elicit, by interrogatory, any account of his name, place of abode, connexions, or destination of the grass contained in his bag, he opposed the most obstinate silence. The news of the stranger's capture quickly spread through the district, and a great crowd of persons beset the place of his confinement. An attempt to force the prison and set him at liberty was successfully resisted, and an offer of a large sum of money was afterwards made to the tannahdar, to induce him to connive at an escape; but the circumstance only served to indicate to the keen observation of the worthy functionary, the agency of some more powerful delinquent yet concealed, whom he was determined to use every possible endeavour to discover. His first step towards that object was the sending of one of his most trusty peons to the prisoner's apartment, to inform him, that, unless he instantly declared the names of the parties for whom he had procured the poisonous grass found in his possession, he should lose his nose. The captive heard the threat unmoved, but when he saw preparations making for putting it in execution, he loudly called for mercy, declaring that he knew not the names of those who had employed him, but promising most solemnly to point them out in court, at the approaching trial. This being deemed satisfactory for the present, and the prison guard being doubled, he was left unmolested for the remainder of the night. The next day the Rajah attended in court, to preside at the trial of the parties charged with the poisoning, and his son was admitted, on this occasion, to the privilege of sitting beside him. Reetah, with her husband and father, having entered the court, and all the preliminary arrangements being concluded, the charge against the prisoners was then read over, and the circumstances of their arrest in the disguise of priests, wandering by light upon the sheep-walk of Heerah-mul, which was found to be strewed with a great quantity of the poisonous grass, were put in evidence. Reetah being then called upon, in a narrative rendered peculiarly interesting, by the dignified simplicity of manner in which it was given, made a succinct statement of the various annoyances and losses to which her family had been exposed, since the period of her being betrothed to Putchcowree; which continued persecution, for the reasons which she assigned, she attributed to the persevering arts, and unrelenting malice of the three prisoners, Gopauldas, Neendooramport, and Raddamuttee, in conclusion citing the apprehension on the night preceding, of a stranger conveying a bag filled with the poisonous grass by which the damage to their flocks had been effected. The circumstances to which she had deposed being corroborated by the testimony of her husband and her father, they were all three conducted to their seats, and the stranger being brought into court was thus addressed by the Rajah: -- 

"I find by an entry filed in the tannahdar's office, that you are charged to have been employed, by some person or persons resident in this town, to bring hither a quantity of poisonous grass of a certain description: how say you -- is this true?"

"The information which you have so received is the truth," answered the stranger.

"What is your name, and by whom were yon so employed?" resumed the Rajah.

"Of my employers," said the stranger, "I know not the names, but only the persons. My own name shall not pass my lips, though the pincers tear my flesh from the bone."

He was then desired to point out, if they were present among the persons in court, those who had employed him; and, looking carefully around, he successively identified the three prisoners, then upon trial, as the parties to whom he had referred. He was then sworn in the usual form, solemnly to disclose the truth, and gave such a distinct, connected, and lucid statement of his first intercourse and agreement with the prisoners, and the subsequent transactions between them, down to his detection at the entrance of the town with the grass in his possession, as left no doubt of their guilt on the mind of any person; and they were accordingly condemned, in spite of every remonstrance or representation on the score of the respectability of their families and connexions, to lose their ears and noses, and, after being paraded round the confines of the district of Sumpter, to be thrust forth with ignominy, and prohibited to return under pain of death. This sentence was heard with general (satisfaction, as the prisoners had become notorious for the profligacy of their lives and characters; and the triumph of Reetah and her family was hailed as a topic of general gratification and joy.

The court was on the point of breaking up when the stranger exclaimed in a loud voice:

"Three men are condemned for a crime of which they are guilty agents: the decree, so far as they are concerned, is just. But if there be yet another who not only partook in their crime but stimulated these to its commission, why, oh Rajah! should he not also participate of the punishment, since he shared in the guilt t"

"Why not, indeed?" said the Rajah. "If such an one be now in this court, let him be pointed out."

"Three," continued the stranger, "were detected on the theatre of their villany, at the moment of its perpetration; but the cunning of a fourth, prevented his appearance in the scene. He was the inventor -- the soul of the plot; they were but the hands and tools employed in its performance. He planned in secret, and watched, from the ambush in which he lay concealed, the execution of the nefarious schemes which he had contrived; and the author of the mischief still eludes the vigilance and baffles the power of that justice which has overtaken his minor agents. But this should no longer be; and may the wrath of heaven burst in vengeance upon my head, may fire consume this tongue to its root, may palsy strike and wither this right arm if the former deceive or my finger betray, when they denounce him (pointing to the Rajah's son) who sitteth next the judge, as the prime mover and secret conductor of this plot."

The astonishment caused by this declaration, to the minds of all who heard it, is beyond description; the solemnity of tone and wild energy of manner which accompanied its delivery filled most of those present with that species of awe which might be inspired by the sudden and supernatural appearance of some superior being commissioned to announce some terrible and appalling message.

"The man is mad!" screamed the object of his accusation, who appeared dreadfully agitated.

"He is, my son," exclaimed the Rajah, recovering from the fixed gaze of mute horror with which he had for some moments regarded the wild looks of the stranger.

"I will not stoop," said the young man rising haughtily from his seat, "to answer the rude and baseless denunciations of an unknown wanderer, who stands before us a self-convicted agent and accomplice in a scheme of most nefarious villany."

The first emotion of surprise produced by this occurrence, having in some degree subsided, the Rajah desired that a quiet and patient hearing should be given to whatever the stranger might have to urge, notwithstanding the appearance of mental derangement which he exhibited.

"May every torture here and every curse hereafter be mine," vociferated the stranger, with increasing wildness of manner, "if I speak not the truth! Gold, proffered by yon foul tempter, corrupted me. Long did I struggle to resist his insidious proposals, but, carefully observant of the misery of my condition, he watched the growth of my necessities, and by a proportionate increase of the assiduity with which he assailed me, and in the amount of the bribe, he at last succeeded in undermining my integrity. The spectre of guilt since that moment has haunted my steps; the demon of remorse has seized me for his prey; my spirit is consumed with avenging fire; and here I stand to demand revenge on my seducer."

"I appeal," said the young man in a tone of wild remonstrance, "against the indecency of my being subjected, in this public assemblage, to these injurious reflections, from one whose wild rhapsodies prove only that he who utters them is mad."

"Mad!" exclaimed the stranger, "aye, mad indeed, and well I may! But by whom has my reason been subverted, my mind overthrown? With a countenance as serene as the azure vault of the summer's sky, with a look as placid as the unruffled lake that reflects the mild gleaming of the evening stars, you behold unmoved the ruin you have caused; but can you disprove the allegations I have made? Perhaps you have forgot my person, and our meeting on the bastion; but does not the sparkling of this jewel recal, at least, some glimmer of that evening's wicked compact?"

The concluding sentence was accompanied by the exhibition of a splendid ring, enriched with a rare and costly gem, the sight of which forced from the Rajah an exclamation of surprise, apparently the effect of a sudden recognition; and, while his eyes were yet fixed with a scrutinizing gaze upon the shining trinket, his son snatched it from the unwary grasp of the stranger, exclaiming: -- "Of this precious ornament was I robbed, now more than three months ago."

"'Twas a most surprising robbery, indeed," replied the stranger, "for, with the ring, was also taken this note, setting forth the services, in return, exacted of the robber, by him from -whose hand it was received!" and, as he spoke, the stranger handed the document to the Rajah, who turned pale and was greatly agitated when he recognized the character of the writing.

"How long, sir," exclaimed the infuriated youth, "is your son to endure the insult of this maniac's raving accusations?"

The Rajah, exceedingly moved, appealed to some of the most learned and experienced of the persons then in attendance upon the court for their judgment in this affair, who, pronouncing the stranger undoubtedly mad, ordered him to be instantly bound hand and foot, and, while the guards were putting their commands into execution, the prisoner inveighed loudly and bitterly against the injustice of the Rajah, in punishing the already tortured victim of remorse for the insanity caused by his subordinate administering to the crime, of which the contriver, director, and chief operator, though thus openly denounced and publicly convicted, was still cherished and protected.

"Father," said the object of these bitter denunciations, "I cannot longer brook these degrading taunts, and, if their insane utterer be not instantly removed, I will put a stop to his raving by burying this dagger in his heart."

"With the practice which makes perfect," said the stranger in a tone of bitter sarcasm, "even in that kind of work, thou art sufficiently familiar; and doubtless thy hand can guide the weapon with an unerring aim. That blade is still tinged with the blood of!Ah! well mayest thou smile in the conscious security afforded to thy guilt, by the concealment in which my extorted oath compels me to shroud that name."

A venerable pundit sitting in the court, now arose, and, claiming the attention of the Rajah, said: -- "Pardon me, but, although this man be mad, the accusations which he makes are subject to proof, and, if he produce evidence to substantiate what he asserts, it should be borne in mind that to manacle and fetter his limbs in iron is no answer to the charge, nor do threats of vengeance constitute a refutation of what his tongue has spoken. In the list of hitherto undetected crimes, pardon an afflicted father for remembering that the murder of his son is comprised, on whose fate it may be in the power of this mysterious man to throw some light."

"The murder of his son! Oh, what a tale is there!" exclaimed the stranger, his eyes glaring wildly, his features writhing in frightful contortions, and a white foam frothing from his mouth. Then with a horrid yell he exclaimed, "demons and furies rack and torture me, and see!" -- pointing to the Rajah's son -- "the tempter now too feels their power; no longer shall he mock and triumph in my anguish; behold him trembling, his cheeks are pale with fear, his eye-balls glare with horror; an inward fire consumes him; he falls, he sinks, he vanishes to hell!" An hysterical fit of laughter closed this rhapsody, at the conclusion of which the speaker fell upon the floor, insensible from exhaustion.

The Rajah directed the mysterious and unaccountable being to be removed from the court; and ordered the execution of the sentence on the three prisoners to be suspended until the affair should have undergone further investigation. To Heerah-mul and Putchcowree he awarded a compensation to the full amount of their losses, and promised a continuance of his special protection to the whole family.

The stranger was lodged in an old tower, in the castle of Sumpter, and on the third day after. wards was reported to have been found dead in his dungeon, on the walls of which he had written these words, -- "I murdered the son of Bagun Singh, but --," leaving that bloody deed still veiled in its original mysterious obscurity. By way of wholly discrediting the charge which he had made against the Rajah Mooda, great pains were taken to make it generally believed that he was mad, and an inquiry instituted by the Rajah, into the circumstances of his possession of the ring, terminated in the disgrace and dismissal of the Pundit, who was said to have abused the confidence of the young man, over whom he had considerable influence. Nor had he ever an opportunity of justifying his conduct, or clearing himself from the imputation, for shortly after his dismissal, he was found dead in his chamber, undoubtedly from the effects of poison.

A period of two years had elapsed, without any further light being shed on these transactions, when a fall from his horse brought the Rajah Mooda to his death-bed; and, when all hope of his recovery was abandoned, and his dissolution was fast approaching, he acknowledged himself the murderer of the Pundit's son, whom he had caused to be stabbed in a fit of jealousy. The unfortunate youth, he said, had been the first avowed lover of Reetah, and fancying that he would prove an impediment to the libertine designs, which he had conceived of getting her into his own power, he hired the mysterious stranger to stab him one evening, as he was returning homeward from her cottage. He said he had other confessions to make; but the agony of his sufferings, from the injuries caused by his accident, increased to such a degree as prevented him from proceeding with the narrative; and violent convulsions ensuing, which terminated in his death, put a stop to any further disclosures.

This confession caused a great sensation in Sumpter, and produced impressions highly unfavourable to the Rajah's character for justice; and open expressions of opinion to that effect became not un frequent, although he spared neither pains nor expense in endeavouring to repair, to the utmost of his power, the injuries caused by the misconduct of his son. He made a large addition to the income and possessions of Putchcowree, whose eldest son he adopted, and in various other ways contributed to the happiness of Reetah and her family, who, amidst the accumulation of demands upon her time and attention, from the increasing extent of her domestic concerns, still found leisure for the exercise of those good offices and acts of kindness to all arround her, which had acquired her in youth the universal esteem and affection of her neighbours. Thus her remaining days glided on in undisturbed serenity and happiness, and, under the equitable and mild rule of the Rajah, the village of Sumpter long continued to enjoy peace and comfort; and, though many years have passed, since the occurrence of the events which form the subject of this tale, the inhabit. ants still refer with delight to the memory of "The Village Queen," and relate, with expressions of wonder, the story of the "Mysterious Stranger."

LILLEE; OR, THE FAIR OF HURDWAR.

"The day after to-morrow," said Bidusee to his wife, "is Hurdwar fair; and as so many years have passed since we were there, and our advancing age renders it very probable that we shall not enjoy many more opportunities of seeing it, what say you -- shall we make up a party and go?"

"No, indeed!" replied the aged partner of his fortunes, "what have a couple of superannuated bodies like us to do amidst the gaiety and frivolities of such a scene? There was, indeed, a time when such an excursion would have led to an ample field of delight and enjoyment for us both, and for a gay and goodly troop of friends, who would gladly have attended us. But how many years have rolled away since that blithesome period, and now, alas! where are they?"

This worthy pair had but newly returned to settle in their native village, at some distance from the town of Hurdwar, after an absence of thirty years, the lapse of which had, of course, effected alterations in their features and personal appearance, which, added to their change of names, effectually preserved them from recognition by such of their former acquaintance as might yet survive among the inhabitants of the village, from whom, however, they lived much retired.

"I find no reason," said Bidusee, on hearing the cross answer of his wife, which is above recorded, "I find no reason, in what you have now said, to stay our visit to that celebrated place, on an occasion when it is the resort of so many thousands who flock thither from all parts, each attracted by their several views of religion, of trade, or of pleasure. What, though so many years have rolled over our heads? On the time that is past we can look back without regret; we have health and spirits still left to enable us to partake of the enjoyments which the present affords; and the little that may yet remain to us of our mortal career, we should endeavour to enjoy as we best may, that, if possible, we may end life as cheerfully as we began it."

"One might think, Bidusee," replied his more serious companion, "to hear you talk, that you were growing young instead of old. But every thing has its season, and it would better befit you and me to withdraw ourselves from such scenes, and relinquish the gaieties of Hurdwar and its fair to our children, and persons of their time of life; the more especially when we have our rice harvest yet to get in. Reserve your health and strength for labours of usefulness, and waste them not in a jaunt of mere pleasure to the fair."

"Well," replied the husband, overpowered by the speech of his unyielding wife, though not convinced by her reasoning, "since you are not willing to go, I shall e'en abandon the project; though Lillee, poor girl, will, I doubt not, be much disappointed, for I know she has been looking forward, with no small anticipation of delight, to the approaching fair-time. I cannot, however, think of exposing my daughter, likely as she would be to attract notice, to the risk of unpleasant observation, and perhaps insult, which she must probably encounter, in visiting such places, under any other protection than our own."

At that moment "the fair Lillee," as she was generally styled, from the delicacy of her complexion and the comeliness of her person, entered the room where they were sitting, and, learning that a visit to the fair had been under discussion, said that she had received an invitation to take a seat in the ruth (a cariage on two low wheels, drawn by bullocks) of their neighbour Tulsee, and accompany his party to the festival. No sooner had she mentioned the name of Tulsee, than the brow of her father darkened with seeming displeasure, and he desired her to decline all invitations from one of his cruel and treacherous disposition. Filled with astonishment at the words of her parent, she mildly answered, that it seemed but an ungracious return to make for proffered kindness; and ventured to suggest, that the age of the party and the respectable character which he bore among his neighbours should protect him from any hasty indulgence of uncharitable suspicions. Her attempted defence of Tulsee irritated her father, and, in a somewhat angry tone, he peremptorily bade her go at once, and decline the invitation, and, if questioned as to the grounds of his refusal, to state plainly the terms in which he had made it. Poor Lillee's gentle nature, and placid disposition were sorely ruffled by this asperity; and though, from her habits of docility and obedience, she departed forthwith on her unwelcome errand, it was with a swelling heart and eyes suffused with tears, not so much for the privation of her expected pleasure as for the offensive nature of the message with which she was charged. The sincerity of her regret was therefore expressed in the tone and look which accompanied her delivery to Tulsee of her father's disapproval; and when, in answer to his inquiries, she communicated the prejudice against his character upon which it was avowedly founded, she became distressingly agitated.

Tulsee, as might be expected, was highly indignant at such imputations upon his character, from a comparative stranger too; and, wondering what reason could be assigned for the charges of treachery and cruelty, by one to whom he bad never offered, nor even for a moment meditated any injury, he determined upon seeking an immediate explanation. As soon, therefore, as Lillee had returned to the residence of her father, he followed, and, having encountered him on the threshold, thus angrily addressed him: --

"By what right is it, Bidusee, that you have dared to malign my character? By what act of my life have you known me to forfeit the reputation of an honest man? To your own child you have traduced me as treacherous and cruel. I demand the instant production of your proofs, that I am either the one or the other, or immediate satisfaction for your atrocious calumny."

"Smooth the furrows of anger from thy brow; moderate the tone of thy speech; and restrain the vehemence of thy demeanour, and I will answer thee," returned Bidusee, in a calm and subdued voice, and with a fixed and stern regard.

"I swear," rejoined the infuriated Tulsee, "that unless you, this instant, make me a direct and full apology, my nature will no longer brook this insult."

"Methinks" said Bidusee, unmoved by the menace, "that Tulsee should, ere this, have learned to command his temper, and have acquired some practice in the art of forbearance."

"I neither know the meaning, nor the aim of these provoking insinuations," exclaimed Tulsee, drawing his dagger, "but, by the holy Ganges, I will at once cut short your insolent abuse."

"What, again?" said Bidusee, fixing on his exasperated assailant an austere and searching look, "again wouldst thou crimson that ensanguined blade?"

"Not again, but now for the first time shall it be stained with blood," cried Tulsee, his lip quivering with rage and his eye-balls with anxiety for revenge, as he aimed a desperate blow at his unarmed opponent, who, seizing by the wrist his decending arm, wrested the weapon from his grasp, and looking him steadfastly in the face, exclaimed,

"Why is thy malignity thus savagely provoked by my solicitude to preserve my child from the clutch of the fratricide -- the skulking assassin of the forest? Have you forgotten the bloody strife in the wood of Ambeta? You and I have measured weapons before this morning!"

Tulsee, astounded apparently by what he heard and saw, stood gazing upon Bidusee, in silent horror, while the latter thus continued: -- 

"If you know me not, indeed, as yet, or seek to force discredit upon the evidence of your own senses, perhaps your memory may be convinced by beholding these scars;" and, as he spoke, he laid bare his left arm, and breast, and side. Tulsee, quivering at the sight, turned pale, and then sunk senseless on the earth, having recognized, in the lacerated form which stood before him, the living memorial of a deed of blood, which the disappearance and thirty years' silence of its victim and only witness, had led him to believe was veiled in impenetrable oblivion. The shock which he had thus received deprived him, for a considerable time, of consciousness; and, in the interim, Bidusee caused him to be conveyed into his house, and consigned him to the care of his wife and daughter, whom he charged to use every possible means for effecting his restoration.

Tulsee had, in his early manhood, been enamoured of a young maiden of considerable beauty, the daughter of an Aumildar, (a public functionary) of the district, by whom his addresses were rejected, in favour of his only brother, two years younger than himself. The animosity against his brother, which the preference thus shewn to him excited in his bosom, was not to be appeased but by his death, which he therefore determined to accomplish by his own hand.

He accordingly laid wait for him one evening in a forest, through which he had to pass on his return home from a visit to his mistress, and rushing upon him, with uplifted dagger, after a short struggle left him for dead; and finding, on returning to the spot the next morning, that the body had disappeared, he concluded that it must have been devoured by some ravenous beast of prey, and flattered himself into the assurance of the most perfect impunity for his crime, from the persuasion that no living being besides himself was privy to the murderous deed. In the mean time the wounded man, recovering from the state of insensibility into which he had fallen from his wound, had retraced his steps to the residence of the Aumildar, and, informing his mistress of the deadly feud which had arisen to prevent his return home, prevailed on her to conceal her knowledge of what had occurred, and, after an interval of some weeks, to join him in the city of Delhi, whither he proposed to bend his course. His wishes in this respect were fully complied with, and, after his marriage, settling in that city as a dealer in grain, by a careful management and attention to his business, he succeeded in realizing a comfortable independence, with which after thirty years absence he returned, in hopes of spending the remainder of his days in tranquil retirement in his native village. Finding his brother and but a few of their former mutual acquaintance still alive, and that the alteration in his appearance, and that of his wife, was sufficient to secure them against discovery, he resolved to remain incognito, under the name of Bidusee, which he had assumed at his departure, unless circumstances should occur to compel him to avow himself. In what way that event was brought about has been already shown; and a few words sufficed for the interpretation of the recent extraordinary scene to his family.

On the return of his scattered senses, Tulsee gazed for some minutes on his brother, who was intently occupied in chafing his temples with a restorative application, and then, having fully himself at his feet imploring his pardon for the deadly outrage, of which he declared that he had long since most sincerely repented, though the memory of that fatal transaction, hanging like a cloud that perpetually darkened his existence, had deprived him of consolation, and imbittered his enjoyment of the good things which fortune had placed within his reach. The heart of Bidusee, which had ever dwelt "more in sorrow than in anger" upon the remembrance of his injuries, was quickly melted by the penitent supplications of his brother; and extending his hand he raised him from the ground, and in a close fraternal embrace assured him of his entire and hearty forgiveness. Lillee and her mother were then introduced to him, not as neighbours merely, but in their proper degrees of relationship. On the latter he gazed earnestly for some moments, as if endeavouring to revive the impression of her beauty which had formerly engaged his affections.

"Is there, then, no trace remaining," said Bidusee, "of those features once so familiar to your recollection?"

"Yes," said he, at length, "I do, indeed, discover, though time-worn, the resemblance."

The first reflections from such a meeting, in the peculiar circumstances by which it was attended, were naturally painful; but when the emotions, to which it gave rise, had in some degree subsided, they gradually gave way to thoughts of a more pleasurable nature, and Tulsee indulged in the expression of his gratitude for the preservation of his brother, and the happy issue of their union to the object of his early affections, adding, that it was the strong resemblance to the youthful beauty and gracefulness of the latter, with which he had been struck in the features of Lillee, that had led him to make her acquaintance.

Lillee, availing herself of this allusion, reverted to the circumstance which had more immediately led to their present position, reminding her father that it was to the fair of Hurdwar they were indebted for this happy re-union. The hint was immediately taken by Tulsee, who avowed his intention now, to convert what he had previously designed as a mere pleasure excursion into the more serious matter of a pilgrimage, availing himself of the opportunity to perform those ablutions in the sacred stream of the Ganges, which might serve to purify him from the guilt of his past life. Bidusee and his wife, to testify the cordiality of their reconciliation, readily promised to join his party, and it was agreed that they should set out in the afternoon of the following day. At the approach of evening Lillee, as was her general custom, proceeded to inspect her father's flock, as it pastured on the green slope of the bank of a small river that flowed along the boundary of his lands; and, as she slowly paced by the margin of the stream, the graceful motion of her tall and finely formed, though somewhat slender figure, the beautiful outline of her countenance, the mild and benevolent expression of her features, softened by the delicate flush of roseate health that faintly glowed through a skin, in fineness of texture and dazzling fairness of complexion, rarely equalled in that climate, formed the presentment of what might well be deemed the tutelar goddess of the place. In the course of her walk, her looks were directed towards a cotton tree that grew at a short distance from the bank, to which, after a few moments' pause, she bent her steps, and, casting a seemingly heedless glance around, seated herself with an air of unconcern beneath its spreading branches. Her head then, half upraised, gradually inclined in the attitude of listening, and shortly the accents of a plaintive love-song fell upon her ear, to which the rising blush and gentle smile that lighted up her face proclaimed the notes to be neither unfamiliar nor unwelcome. A new and louder strain succeeded, and the sudden introduction of her name at its close, in the surprise of the moment, caused her to emerge from her concealment, when a youthful shepherd advanced to meet her. Hamed, for that was his name, stood upon the footing of a privileged acquaintance, an intimacy having been formed between their parents and families from a very early period after Bidusee's return to that neighbourhood; and, from the commencement of that intimacy, he had conceived for Lillee an affection that had increased in strength and ardour with every succeeding interview. The inferiority of his circumstances offered little encouragement to his hopes; and, not sufficiently emboldened to venture upon the avowal of his passion, he had hitherto vented his feelings solely through the medium of those tender ditties, the composition and recital of which beguiled the weary hours of his solitary tendance of his father's sheep. Perceiving that, on this occasion at least, he had not been without an auditor, he determined to ascertain, at once, the nature of the impression which this casual disclosure of his sentiments had produced upon the object of his attachment. He accordingly approached her with that respectful demeanour which true love ever inspires; and the simplicity of the language, the firmness of manner, and the ardour of tone in which he preferred his suit, left no room for doubt as to the sincerity and truth of his declarations. She listened long, with silent delight, to the impassioned eloquence with which he urged his wooing; and the seeming reluctance with which she appeared to yield to the persuasive tenderness of his appeal, enhanced the pleasure with which the simple expression of her compliance sounded in his ear. When he learnt the intention of Lillee's family to visit Hurdwar, during the fair, he became alarmed lest she should there encounter some new admirer, whom a greater share of personal attraction, united with superiority of rank and fortune, might render a rival too formidable for one of his humble pretentions to withstand. His spirits became visibly depressed, and Lillee, who attributed his dejection to chagrin at being prevented by his occupation from joining the party, endeavoured to console him by expressing her regret that he should be deprived of the pleasure of participating with them in the festivity. At length the vanishing of the already departed sun's last rays warned the lovers that it was time to separate for the evening; and,joining her brother, who had been engaged in collecting their scattered flock and folding them for the night, Lillee returned with him to their home. Night had now set in, and the moon, rising over the waving outline of the darkened woods, enlivened with her mild and silvery light, the brighter features of the surrounding landscape; while Hamed, having seen hit flock secured, turning his unconscious steps to the cotton tree, so lately hallowed by his Lillee's presence, reclined against its stem, lost in his musing on her possible adventures at the ensuing fair. Here he was found by his father, who, in alarm at his son's unusual absence till so late an hour, had issued forth to seek him, and now with anxiety inquired the cause of his abstraction. Hamed quickly informed him, and was unexpectedly gladdened by his urgent desire that he would join his friends in the excursion, while he would himself attend to the flocks in his absence. The next morning accordingly he prepared for the jaunt, arraying himself in his best attire, and furnished with a handsome and gaily caparisoned horse for the occasion, by an uncle, who lived at a short distance from the village. Thus equipped and mounted, he took the road to Hurdwarand, quickly overtaking the party which had already set forth, was hailed by Bidusee, who, uninformed of the state of affairs, between him and his daughter, pressed him with a hearty welcome to make an addition to their company, an invitation, which, according as it did so fully with his wishes, scarcely needed the approving glance and smile of satisfaction it procured him from his mistress, to insure his acceptance.

The town of Hurdwar, towards which the personages of our tale were travelling, is a celebrated place of Hindoo pilgrimage, distant one hundred and ten miles, in a north easterly direction, from the city of Delhi. Its name, in the vulgar Hindoostanee, (Hardwar) signifies the gate of Hara or Siva, though in the Scanda and other Puranas, or sacred books of the Hindoos, it is written Haridwar, -- the gate of Hari, or Vishnu. It is also named Ganga dwara, -- the passage of the Ganges. It is situated at the base of a steep mountain, on the northern verge of a small cultivated slip of land, reclaimed from the great forest which almost touches the western extremity of the town. Neat pagodas and spacious edifices of stone -- erected by pious individuals for the accommodation of pilgrims -- with their flights of steps leading to the river; some adorned with turrets and pavilions, others covered with fantastic Hindoo paintings, all in some way highly decorated, furnish a gay and splendid scene, and combine with the sacred Ganges -- here a beautiful and limpid stream -- and the vale, bounded on three sides by lofty mountains, through which it rolls down in rapids, to form a noble landscape. The concourse of persons resorting hither from distant parts to the annual fairs is supposed, in general, to average from three hundred thousand to five hundred thousand, and every twelfth year, when particular ceremonies are performed, to above a million.

The most conspicuous portion of this assemblage are the fakeers, or religious mendicants, of whom there are four principal sects. The most numerous are the Gosains.or Sanyassies, distinguished by a wrapper of cloth dyed with red ochre, many of whom profess a total disregard for worldly concerns, and appear in a state of nature, though among them are many men of considerable property, who only assume the appearance of the devotee, being in other respects well provided with the comforts and conveniences of life; those from the west of India are worshippers of Siva, and have taken vows of celibacy; those of Bengal are married, and worshippers of Vishnu, though the name of the sect, being a corruption of Goswami -- lord of the bull, -- ought to have reference to Siva. The next powerful class are the Bairaggies, who are disciples of Vishnu, and, as their name implies, are supposed to be exempted from, human passions; they are distinguished by two stripes of yellow ochre, or sandal, on the forehead, and a string of tulasi beads round the neck. The next class are the Udassies, who are followers of Nanok Shah, the founder of the Seik sect, and are known by a conical cap with a fringe. The Jogies -- the fourth class -- -are votaries of Siva, and have a longitudinal slip in the cartilage of the ear. All these sects engage in husbandry and commerce; none but the Gosains ever follow the profession of arms. Some of them never shave, but allow the hair of their heads to grow to an extraordinary length, binding it round the forehead in small tresses like a turban. Among the Gosains and Jogies a custom prevails of burying their dead, which is very uncommon among other Hindoos. The sums which these people levy from the superstitious Hindoos of every class are immense; and at one time the Gosains were sufficiently powerful to assume a temporary authority, and to regulate the police of the fair. Besides religious motives great numbers resort hither for commercial purposes; large caravans of merchants arriving from various quarters, this being the mart whence Delhi, Lucknow, and other important towns are supplied with the productions of the northern and western countries. An extensive trade is also carried on in- cattle, and formerly in slaves; many hundred poor wretches of both sexes, from three to thirty years of age, being brought down from the hills and the upper country, chiefly by the Goorkhas, and sold at prices from ten to one hundred and fifty rupees. To this traffic, however, a stop has been put since the company obtained possession of the territory, as well as to the sway of the Gosains, who were for some time debarred from the pilgrimage, though they even now occupy the best stations at the. fair. Many persons also repair to the fairs solely in search of pleasure and amusement.

The roads on this occasion were extremely thronged, and Bidusee, in order to avoid as much as possible of the inconveniences, and confusion, and discomforts, attendant upon the overcrowding of the town, thought it better to seek accommodation for his party at Kunkul. This is a Brahminical town, situated on the west bank of the river, about two miles south of Hurdwar, almost entirely composed of large and handsome stone edifices, built for the accommodation of pilgrims resorting to the latter, intermixed with fantastic Hindoo temples and gardens. Thither accordingly they repaired, with the exception of Tulsee, who proceeded direct to Hurdwar, with a view of endeavouring, through the friendly assistance of some of the attendant Brahmins with whom Jie had influence, to avoid the fatigue and danger of the struggle among the pilgrims to gain the precedency in bathing, which is very great. The holy bathing spot is at the base of the Hirkee Paree, where the mountain projects towards the river, and there is room only for four persons to pass abreast; the period of ablution commences at the moment of the sun's entering the sign Aries; and it not unfrequently happens that, in the desperate rush made by the infatuated .devotees, as the time approaches, numbers are squeezed to death. No particular ceremony is used in bathing, which consists merely of simple immersion. The depth at the proper season is only four feet, and both sexes plunge in indiscriminately. Those who are rich, however, and rigidly pious, are introduced by a couple of Brahmins, who, having dipped the penitent in the holy stream, reconduct him to the shore; and Tulsee had made arrangements for availing himself of this practice, so as to escape the risk and toil of the crowd; purposing to rejoin his friends in the fair, when that and the other rites of his pilgrimage should have been duly performed.

Early on the following day they entered the fair, which exhibited a boundless variety of objects calculated to work upon every sense to a degree approaching bewilderment. The numerous groups of fanatics that lined the avenues on either side, screaming forth in every possible variety of tone and key prayers and pious ejaculations, to lure donations from the religious, or extort contributions from the timid; the gorgeous splendor and magnificence of the trains of rich pilgrims and other persons of rank, with their retinue of attendants on foot and mounted on horses, camels, or elephants, and in palanquins, litters, and carriages of every description; gay and richly embroidered flags and banners waving in the breeze, and bands of every species of musical instruments filling the air, and stunning the ear with an endless continuation of sounds; the quantity and value of merchandise of all kinds exposed for sale in the different bazars, and the confused hum of the busy multitude with which they were thronged; the endless variety of the costume of persons of every class, from all countries, promenading the fair in every direction; the antics and feats of the jugglers, tumblers, mummers and performers, of all descriptions, for the amusement of the idle and pleasure-seeking visitants of the place; -- all presented a succession of scenes, to which no power of language can give any adequate descriptive effect. Amidst all the exhilaration, bustle, and excitement, however, with which they were surrounded, the quick apprehension of a lover's fears enabled Hamed soon to perceive, that his presentiment of danger to his hopes, was not altogether groundless, and he congratulated himself on the good fortune which had furnished him with the opportunity of being on the spot, to counteract it. It soon became apparent to his observation, that the charms of Lillee formed a magnet of attraction to the particular notice of the beholders, wherever they passed. Hundreds of eyes feasting on her beauty, seemed to tell of hearts fascinated by its power. But one young man of noble mien, and handsome person, mounted on a horse of the finest breed, richly caparisoned, and attended in a manner suitable to exalted rank, seemed to attach himself particularly to their party, following their every movement, -- accompanying them to every quarter of the festive scene, which they successively visited, stationing himself so as to preserve a full view of Lillee, wherever they stood, and finally leaving them only at the door of the dhurrum-sala, (serai, or inn) to which they retired for refreshment. There they were met by Tulsee, and, when they had finished their repast, the brothers agreed in thinking it adviseable to proceed forthwith towards home, to escape the scenes of riot and turbulence which evening was sure to bring, from the number of dissolute and profligate characters, that invariably congregated at such festivals. At the present day, indeed, and for many years past, owing to the precautions taken by the British government, the fairs have ended without bloodshed, to the astonishment of the vast multitude assembled, who formerly were accustomed to associate the idea of fighting and murder, with that of the pilgrimage to Hurdwar.

They accordingly took their departure at an early hour of the afternoon, and were joined on the road by several of their neighbours. The conversation of the company turned on the number of young men, of high and princely rank, whom they had noticed at the fair, most of whom resorted thither for the purpose of purchasing beautiful or accomplished females, to grace their zennanahs. While this topic engaged the attention of the elders of the party, Hamed, who rode by the side of the litter in which Lillee was conveyed, engaged her in close and animated conversation, his spirits being excited to an agreeable flow, by his secret joy at her escape from the amorous approaches of so many youths of quality as he had noticed gazing on her charms. The tender attentiveness of demeanour, and the felicitous ardency of expression which his situation and circumstances inspired, operated, with an effect, by no means slight, to his advantage, on the susceptible mind of his attentive auditor. Many miles of their journey were thus passed pleasantly enough, and the party had proceeded without molestation until evening, when the road lay on the skirt of the forest, where the lofty trees, intermingling their branches above, formed a leafy arcade, that yielded at noon a delightful shelter from the heat and glare of a vertical sun, but in that hour of twilight darkened into gloom. On gaining an angle formed by a turn of the road in the grove, they were suddenly stopped by a small band of armed horse-men formed across their way. Plunder was the first thing surmised as their object, but Hamed's apprehensions quickly suggested a very different prize as more probably their aim. Bidusee and the other males of the party, drawing their swords, prepared for resistance, when the marauders immediately made a dash for the spot where the litter containing Lillee was halted. Their charge was repulsed, and, its object being no longer doubtful, Hamed, approaching the litter, mounted Lillee behind him and, passing unobserved into the thicker shade of the wood, made for a by-road, with which he was well acquainted and, gaining it, soon reached home with his precious charge in safety. Foiled in their first assault, and perceiving in the strength of their opponents some danger of a part of their force being captured, the strangers made no attempt to renew the attack, but at once betook themselves to flight through the wood. Great was the uneasiness of Bidusee on discovering at their departure that his daughter was missing. It was, however, instantly determined to push rapidly on, and the delight of all may be imagined, on arriving at home, to find all safe and sound, except a few slight wounds sustained by two or three of the party.

Hamed received the commendations of all for the presence of mind, decision, and tact which he had displayed; and when he heard Bidusee, in the warmest terms which the sincerity of gratitude could prompt to a generous and noble nature, pour forth his acknowledgments of the obligation under which his gallantry had laid him, he could no longer withhold the declaration of that attachment which had stimulated every faculty both of mind and body to their most effective exertion on the approach of danger to its object.

To a passion so candidly avowed, which he soon discovered to be mutual, the good sense of Bidusee, seeing no rational ground of disapproval, scorned to interpose any fastidious or parsimonious objection, but declared at once his willingness to consign the future fortunes of his darling Lillee to the keeping of one who had shown himself equally prompt and skilful in providing for her protection in her late sudden emergency.

The nuptials of Hamed and Lillee were, therefore, speedily concluded; and during a long life of happiness which followed, surrounding them with a numerous progeny, they never ceased to remember with satisfaction their first evening's encounter under the cotton tree, and their subsequent jaunt to Hurdwar fair.

THE ROSE OF HURDWAR.

CHAPTER I.

"'Tis late! 'Tis past the time he said he would be here, and yet he comes not; nor is there ought of sight or sound denoting his approach! Vishnu defend, my Keeshna! that any mischance be the cause of thy delay! Yon bright orb that, sailing down the deep blue vault of heaven, with the mild effulgence of its blessed light showing in dark relief each object on the silvery landscape, now gladdens all around, ere another hour, sinking behind the tops of those lofty forest trees, will cast a shade o'er all, -- the gloomier on those spots that now are gleaming brightest. As brief a space might serve to whelm those passages of our fate which hope now gilds with gayest promise in the deep shadow of irremediable despair! I wonder what can keep him! Surely that crafty, prying villain Moodee cannot have discovered our intended meeting, and, by his officious watchfulness, have prevented Keeshna from setting forth! The thought's more chilling than the night breeze that now is growing cold."

Such were the words that fell, in gently murmuring accents, from one, who, at the closing sentence, drew her mantle's folds more closely round her figure, as she seated herself at the foot of a cotton tree, whose pendent boughs overhung the verdant bank, inclining with easy slope to the margin of the little river that washes the north western boundary of the town lands of Hurdwar, in its passage to the Ganges.

The name of the fair speaker was Jauny, the celebrity of whose beauty had acquired her the surname of "the Rose of Hurdwar." Her father Baboo Bajerow Puar, was a Brahmin of high cast, and, as one of the wealthiest zemindars, or land proprietors, of the district of Saharunpoor, ranked with the most influential and respected of the native inhabitants of Hurdwar, where he resided in a splendid palace, the gardens of which, celebrated for their magnificence and richness of culture, comprised, on the river side, that portion of the bank on which his daughter was seated. He was by nature mild, generous, and affectionate, and had reared this favourite child -- his only daughter -- with the utmost care, treating her with every indulgence consistent with a judicious consideration for her health and mental improvement, which the tender solicitude of a fond and watchful parent could suggest. Neither pains nor expense was spared in her instruction, nor for the procuring of whatever could add to her comfort or gratification; nor was she subjected to any restraint beyond the influence of friendly advice, which had always been administered in a mild, candid, and conciliatory manner, that, while it fostered and strengthened the native sincerity and ingenuousness of her disposition, had secured him the confidence and esteem of the lovely and intelligent girl. Somewhat, however, of coldness and reserve had marked his manner towards her of late, the observation of which had sorely wounded her gentle spirit; the more so from its occurring at a time when the intrusions of that Moodee, whom she named in her soliloquy, had become so constant and unintermitted as to deprive her accustomed interviews with Keeshna of that privacy, without which the freedom of communication between lovers is at an end, the charm which gave a zest to their meeting is destroyed, and the intercourse once so productive of delight becomes painful from its embarrassment. The delicacy and difficulty, at all times sufficiently great, of remonstrating against such impertinence on the part of one who, in his capacity of Gooroo, or spiritual instructor, to the family, occupied so large a share of her father's confidence, and exercised a proportionate degree of influence over him, were greatly aggravated by this temporary check to the unrestricted facility which she had hitherto enjoyed of unbosoming every difficulty and disclosing every thought of her pure and unsophisticated mind to her parental monitor and friend. This it was that led to her present assignation with Keeshna, whose attentions to her, as well as her preference of him, had been sanctioned by the tacit approval and acquiescence of both their parents, who were fully aware of their mutual regard for each other; and she awaited his coming with anxiety, in that spot where they had often met before, at an hour almost as late, but not, as now, clandestinely. All around was silent, save the monotonous murmuring of the river as it laved the shingly margin of its bed; and, after a long and fruitless gaze, in the direction of the dark mound on the opposite shore, from the deep shadow of which she expected the bark of her Keeshna to emerge, -- her look became fixed, in vacancy, upon the one bright patch in the centre of the stream, where the curling ripple of its waters broke, into a thousand glittering fragments, the moonbeams that in silvery radiance played upon its surface, her mind the while insensibly imbibing a tone of pensiveness from the tranquil beauty of the scene. The revery into which she had sunk was becoming painful, from the forebodings of evil which had suggested themselves to her apprehension, when the splashing sound of paddles striking on her ear awakened her attention, and springing on her feet she listened anxiously for the words of a stanza which Keeshna was to sing, to give notice of his approach. But, though the increasing strength of the paddles' strokes told that the boat was rapidly drawing near, not a note arose to proclaim the arrival of him she expected; the heavy plunge of the paddles too, so different from the light dipping with which Keeshna seemed barely to skim along the surface of the water, indicated the presence of strangers; and when the boat had neared sufficiently to enable her plainly to discern the figures of two persons seated within, she became too much alarmed to decide on the instant upon the course she should take in order best to evade observation. In this state of suspense she remained until they reached the shore, when, from his voice, she learned that her father was one of the party, and the deep tones of the other convinced her that Moodee was his companion. Her fear of danger was thus removed, but that her assignation was known or suspected seemed too evident for doubt. Determined, however, not to precipitate a discovery, and, no other means remaining to avoid it but by climbing the tree in the shade of which she was standing, she seized at once its lowest limbs, which were within her reach, and, raising herself with a slight effort, was quickly concealed among the spreading branches. Scarcely had she secured herself within her leafy screen when her father and Moodee, advancing so as to place the tree between themselves and the river, seated themselves in its shadow as if to watch the approach of any person from the opposite bank. Their purpose was thus rendered manifest to Jauny, whose attention was stretched to a painful degree of intensity, to catch the particulars of the conversation which, in accents scarcely exceeding the lowest murmur, passed between them.

"I cannot yet think, good Moodee," said her father, "that there is any thing in the intercourse of Keeshna with my daughter beyond what propriety might sanction or which I could not approve. The general estimate of his character does not discredit the excellence of his education, and he has hitherto been always well-conducted; besides which, the virtue and good sense of my Jauny would appear sufficiently to guarantee her security against any depravity of her own nature or the artifices of a deceiver; nor could my confidence in either have been shaken for a moment, or any idea of the necessity of interposing the slightest check to their communications have been engendered in my mind by any suggestions less potent than those which you have so earnestly and repeatedly urged. And even now I can scarcely believe that your zeal for our interests and your excessive anxiety for my Jauny's welfare have not hurried you into exaggeration of the imaginary danger from which you would guard her."

"Worthy Bajerow," said Moodee in answer, "did not Keeshnaquit her side to avoid my notice when I met them the other evening in the Sudder Bazaar? and some time after that, when, having rejoined her, he led her to the recess in which I had concealed myself to observe their motions, did I not see him fold her to his bosom and kiss her glowing cheek, and did I not then also overhear the arrangement for this night's meeting, which it is the design of our visit to this spot to detect?"

This circumstantial appeal seemed to startle Bajerow, who was silent for a moment, and then in a hurried and earnest tone inquired whether Moodee was cognizant of any farther transactions of a clandestine nature between the parties, adding, with a sigh, "there is certainly, to say the least, an air of imprudence in an appointment at this hour and in such a place."

"I much fear," said his crafty informant, encouraged by the apparently yielding credulity of the old man, "from what I know and have observed of their proceedings, that nothing can avert the danger of disgrace from your family but an immediate and total cessation of all intercourse between Keeshna and your daughter; and oh, for the sake of my valued and respected friend, may it not prove to be even now too late!"

"Indeed," groaned the agitated father, "but are you sure?"

"Sure?" echoed the hypocrite, emboldened by the impression which he had evidently produced, "if my solemn assurance of the fact, that they have forestalled the nuptial rites, have need of stronger confirmation, I am ready to swear, by Chandra -- the moon -- and the holy Ganga, to its truth."

"It is false! thou base deceiver, tremble!" exclaimed Jauny, in a voice completely disguised by the tone imparted by her indignant feelings, excited as they were beyond her power to restrain.

This unexpected appeal to the superstitious fears of Moodee, at that silent hour, and in that lonely place, striking upon his guilty conscience with the force of a denunciation from some invisible and supernatural power whose vengeance he had provoked, filled him with alarm, and, under the sudden impulse of terror, by which he was overpowered, he rushed headlong towards the boat, and such was the rapidity with which he urged his flight that, when the astonished Bajerow reached the bank, he had already gained the middle of the river. Plying the paddle with his utmost might, in rounding the point of the landing place on the opposite shore, his boat came in contact with another that was steadily advancing in the contrary direction, and by the force of the concussion he was ejected and plunged into the stream. As he rose insensible to the surface, Keeshna, for he it was, who, having just launched the other boat, was proceeding to the rendezvous of Jauny, seized him by the knot into which his hair was tied on the top of his head and dragged him to the bank, where, having discovered that it was his detested and insidious persecutor whom he had rescued from a watery grave, he besmeared him from head to foot in the slimy ooze that lined the shore, and then left him to recover at leisure from the stupifying effects of half drowning, and the horrors of guilty conscience-stricken superstition conjoined. Keeshna had been delayed beyond the hour of his appointment by an attack from a couple of assassins who had way-laid him on his route, and whom, after a smart struggle, be had defeated and compelled to seek their own safety by flight; and this, with the circumstance of his present rencontre with Moodee, who had evidently crossed over from the direction of the quarter assigned for his meeting with Jauny, excited his apprehension that their intended interview had been discovered, and that machinations to prevent it had been set on foot by their persevering and crafty tormentor. Jumping, therefore, again into his boat, and taking a course up the river, within the dark shadow cast by the rising ground upon the water, he crossed at a place considerably above where he had originally intended to land, where, concealing his boat among the high grass that fringed the bank, he followed a lonely footpath through the adjacent grove to escape observation, and at length arrived at the tree under which he was to have met his Jauny. Looking carefully around, in quest of that loved form which nowhere met his longing sight, he, in an under tone, just loud enough to be heard by an intentional listener in the nearest part of the plantations, called upon her name; and his delight as well as surprise may be imagined when the laughing girl, stooping from the concealment in which she had imbowered herself, whispered her answer almost close to his ear. With the assistance of her lover she gaily descended from her leafy perch, and their fond and joyful embraces were followed by mutual explanations -- of the delay on his part which had been caused by an attempt upon his life on his way to the boat, in which he had had a narrow escape, the first thrust of one of his assassins having only failed of a deadly result through its contact with a book which he carried in the bosom of his vest, and his subsequent pursuit of the discomfited villains having led him back to the most distant outskirts of the town of Hurdwar, in the intricacy of whose many narrow and obscure passages they had succeeded in escaping; his mistress in return recounted the circumstances which had forced her into that elevated position in which he had found her, and the base and injurious aspersions of their character and conduct, of which she had thereby been made undesignedly a witness. Keeshna now no longer doubted that the dissolution of his connexion with Jauny, which it seemed to have been determined to effect even by murdering him, since other means had failed, was but a preliminary step towards the attainment of some ulterior object, in which Moodee was but the agent of some more exalted and powerful party. For, however bold and aspiring the wishes of Moodee himself might be, it could scarcely, he thought, have fallen within the compass of his hopes that he should ever succeed in obtaining the approval or consent of the Baboo Bajerow Puar to his daughter's union with such a suitor. He therefore determined upon availing himself of the earliest opportunity for an explanation with the venerable Bajerow, to open his eyes to the dark intrigue, the mazes of which threatened to involve the peace and happiness of the dearest objects of his regard. The sound of paddles arresting their attention their looks were turned in the direction from which it proceeded, and there they saw a boat, in which were four rowers, approach the bank at a short distance below them, where a figure, whom they presently discovered to be Bajerow himself, stepped in and was quickly conveyed across; and shortly afterwards Keeshna, having seen his beloved Jauny safe within the precincts of her father's mansion, returned to his boat and, descending the river, regained his home in quiet.

At an early hour the following morning, in crossing the court yard to join the family at their usual early repast, Jauny met her father leading in Moodee, who, from exhaustion, leaned on him for support, the extreme feebleness of his condition scarcely giving a sign of animation, while the coating of dried mud, with which he was covered from head to foot, and his features completely masked, gave him the appearance of a huge misshapen figure of clay. When the grotesque form met her eye, the head bending towards her in an attitude and with a look that were meant for imploring, the effect was too forcible in the ridiculous for Jauny's power of self-possession, and, prompt, as it was natural she should be, to enjoy the merriment of which Moodee had to bear the brunt, she laughed outright, and then, giving vent to that playful malice in which even the kindest natures are prone to indulge when contemplating the ludicrous misfortunes, at least of those who are not their friends, she inquired what creature it was her dear father had got there? The old man, unable to repress his own inclination to the mirth which the sight was calculated to provoke, assured her with a smile, that however difficult she might find it to trace the resemblance, the almost inanimate being, whose mud-beplastered form she there beheld, was no other than their excellent and venerable friend the Gooroo Moodee himself, who had been first half drowned in the river and then nearly smothered in the mud on its banks, under circumstances, the particulars of which, as she evinced so lively an interest in the matter, she should shortly learn.

Having seen Moodee conveyed to his own apartment the venerable Bajerow returned, and seating himself beside his daughter took her by the hand, and in a tone of mild affectionate remonstrance thus addressed her: -- "I fondly cherish the belief, my dear child, that falsehood is unknown to thy ingenuous nature, and that the language of deceit has never yet passed thy lips. It is with the most assured confidence, therefore, in the truth of thy answer, that I now inquire where and with whom you passed yester-evening?"

Somewhat hurt at the suspicions which, as the occurrences of the preceding evening had discovered to her, lurked beneath this inquiry, she coolly replied, "whatever else there may be in my conduct which a beloved parent's judgment may find deserving of reproof, of falsehood, most assuredly, he shall never have cause to accuse me; nor am I conscious of any, the slightest wish to conceal even the most minute circumstance of the matter about which you are now inquiring. I walked with Keeshna in the western grove, and we parted when the pale beams of the declining moon had left the plain, and faintly glimmered through the waving summits of the forest trees."

"With Keeshna! avaunt and quit my sight!" exclaimed Bajerow, starting on his feet in a paroxysm of uncontrollable rage, and pacing the apartment with his face buried in his hands, while he breathed the most bitter denunciations against Keeshna as the cause of his dishonour. Terrified at the extreme violence of this commotion, Jauny sat in anxious silence observing every movement of her agitated parent, who at length thus again addressed her: -- "The sound of that name is like an infernal spell in my ears, and all the fiercest passions of my nature are inflamed by the recollection of his perfidious baseness, in pursuing the gratification of his profligate desires, to the disgrace of my house and the ruin of my child!"

"Hear now, my father!" said Jauny, whose firmness was restored by this direct crimination of both herself and her lover, the pride of conscious rectitude enabling her to subdue the indignation she naturally felt at the insult thus brought upon her by the unprincipled baseness of the vile intriguer, whose suggestions, she was aware, had given birth to the charge: -- "Hear now, the words of your daughter, -- of her in whose sincerity and love of truth you have so lately declared your confidence to be unshaken; hear her while, in the presence of that supreme Being -- the great and all-wise -- to whom every thought of the heart is known as soon as formed and ere the tongue can give utterance to its conception, she solemnly declares that never has Keeshna to her either breathed, or hinted, or so much as looked a thought that might offend the unsullied purity of heaven! And had he dared it, of which I believe him to be utterly incapable, I wonder much by what act of my whole life I have become so degraded in your esteem that you should believe it possible that I would have listened to his libertine proposals!"

The tear of wounded delicacy glistened in the eye of Jauny as she concluded her appeal; and the energetic ardour of its delivery struck, with the force of conviction, upon the mind of her agonized but affectionate parent, who, clasping her in his arms, and gently folding her to his bosom, imprinted her beauteous forehead with a kiss, -- the tender seal of an indulgent father's returning fondness, while their mutual gush of sympathetic tears flowed in a mingled current down her glowing cheeks, and, breathing a prayer of paternal blessing on her head, he assured her of his glad, though perhaps too facile acquiescence in the belief of her innocence.

"But, sir," said the agitated girl, "justice to Keeshna, not less than duty to your injured child, requires that we should be informed of the evidence upon which is founded a charge so vitally affecting the character and happiness of both, and so pregnant with dishonour to our respective families and friends. We ought at least to know his name and character, if we be not permitted the opportunity of confronting our accuser."

"The character of the friend on whose information my suspicions of Keeshna are grounded, and the station he fills in society, would seem fully to entitle him to confidence; mine he has long possessed. His name I need hardly say is Moodee. It is some time since he first awakened my alarm, by pointed allusions to circumstances in your intercourse with Keeshna, indicating, as he described them, a levity and carelessness of restraint, amounting, to say the least, to a high degree of imprudence, and furnishing to the ill-disposed a fair pretext for injurious interpretation. I confess, that on a careful observation of the circumstances to which he alluded, I could discover no cause for apprehension; and I thought it not improbable that his notions of propriety might have been somewhat overstrained and too easily offended, or that an excess of zeal for my interests and anxiety for the welfare of the family might have rendered him too sensitive on that score. But his perseverance in recurring to the subject, the earnestness of his reiterated assurances of acts of positive impropriety having been detected to have passed between you, and the circumstantial nature of his statements in proof of what he alleged, supported as they were by a number of little incidental facts tending to their corroboration, ending with your last night's appointment to meet at so late an hour, in a spot so retired, and wholly unattended, left me at length without the means of longer resisting the conviction that the innocence of my darling child had been already undermined, and that the work of her dishonour was indeed completed. The vehemence with which he has urged these matters has at times been exceedingly offensive, and more than once have I felt myself moved to suspicion of his sincerity by an appearance of over anxiety in his endeavours to secure my belief. It is not unlikely, however, that after all he may have been himself deceived by his mistaken ideas of rigid virtue; but, after the last night's adventures, it is not my intention that he should remain an inmate of my family; and, ere his departure, both you and Keeshna shall have an opportunity of answering to his face the matters which he has alleged against you."

"There, indeed, spoke the love of justice and fair dealing, so truly inherent in my dear father's nature!" said the affectionate girl, as she reclined on his bosom; "and yet," continued she, unconsciously, after a long pause, giving utterance to the reflections arising out of the train of thought into which her mind had been thrown, "I know not why I should feel surprised at any extreme of baseness in the conduct of such a man."

"What means my child?" in a tone of placid and benignant inquiry, asked her father, whom this soliloquizing apostrophe of Jauny recalled from the revery in which his overcharged brain had found relief.

"That I have, indeed, been betrayed," replied she, "by the plausible sophistry of that smooth-tongued hypocrite, into a violation of the confidence that heretofore existed between us, by the concealment of a circumstance, the timely disclosure of which would have spared us all a 'world of anxiety and discomfort. Had his audacity been punished in the outset, as it ought, we should not now have been outraged by this atrocious insult. It was but a few days after he had commenced the performance of his functions as the religious instructor of our family, that availing himself of the authority attached to his sacred calling, he followed me to my apartment at the close of our devotions, and there pouring forth a rhapsody, the drift of which I was quite at a loss to comprehend, he seized my hand and covered it with burning kisses, and was proceeding to take still farther liberties, when, unable longer to control my indignation, I checked his insolent aggression by giving him a blow on the cheek, and was about to quit the apartment for the purpose of acquainting you with his behaviour, but he intercepted my passage by throwing himself on his knees before me, with tears imploring my forgiveness, and in the most humiliating forms of supplication beseeching me to save him from the degradation which an exposure must entail upon a person in his situation, by forbearing the disclosure to you of what had passed, the remembrance of which it would be the study of his life to obliterate from my mind by the respectful reserve of his future demeanour towards me. The sight of one of his age and station in that lowly attitude, his tears of seeming repentance, and the earnestness and apparent sincerity of his protestations as to the propriety of his future conduct caused me to relent, and I promised to refrain from communicating with you on the subject. It was weakness, I acknowledge, and a failure of duty on my part, and heavy is the penalty which my error has entailed on us."

No sooner had Jauny concluded her declaration than, boiling with rage, Bajerow proceeded to the apartment of Moodee, where the base hypocrite lay stretched upon a couch on which he had fallen asleep. Disturbed from his slumber by the rush of this sudden entry into his room, he started upon his feet; and, when the indignant father charged him with a base and perfidious attempt upon the virtue of his daughter, losing all power of self-possession and control over his feelings in the surprise of this detection, he stood trembling with a violence that seemed to threaten an immediate dissolution of his frame -- the perfect image of a convicted and conscience-stricken villain. As he gazed i on the odious plotter of the dishonour of his house, stung to the quick by the recollection of the sanctified cant of the specious dissembler, of which he had been the dupe, the ire of the injured and insulted Bajerow became inflamed to a pitch of fury. Seizing the wretched Moodee by the throat he shook him with his utmost might, and then flung him forcibly on the ground, and on his rising again, catching up the staff; which he ordinarily used in walking, as a prop to the affected feebleness of his limbs, he belaboured him with such severity as, but for the interposition of Jauny and some of the household, who were drawn to the spot by the piteous outcries of the wretched culprit, would probably have terminated his life and intriguing at once. The vehemence of his passion having thus exhausted itself, he caused the affrighted victim of his just resentment to be led to the gate of the outer court and thrust into the street, sternly warning him against being found again within the precincts of that mansion and the grounds thereto belonging, as he valued the preservation of his life or limbs. The degraded outcast, writhing with pain from the effects of his well-merited chastisement, slunk doggedly away, and was neither seen nor heard of for some time afterwards, though he had been heard to mutter, when he was removed from the reach of Bajerow's angry blows, a sullen threat of determined revenge.

The explanations which followed, in proportion as they revealed the extent and tendency of the treacherous Moodee's machinations, and the vile pertinacity with which he pursued them, strengthened the impression that he was but an agent engaged in promoting the designs of some more exalted miscreant yet undiscovered, who coveted the possession of Jauny's personal charms, for the gratification of his licentious pleasure at the expense of her honor and happiness; and, on the other hand, while they effectually cleared the character of Keeshna from the foul and calumnious imputations with which it had been aspersed, by setting in a stronger and clearer light the purity of his intentions, the delicacy of his sentiments and the integrity of his conduct, they served to raise him greatly in Bajerow's esteem. The intimacy which had long subsisted between the families increased in consequence, and the intercourse between the young people, with the sanction of the parents on both sides, being now no longer restrained nor liable to interruption, they had abundant leisure and opportunity, their union being already agreed on, to discuss and arrange the preliminary forms and ulterior plans of their future establishment.

Twelve months had now elapsed and the time was fixed for the celebration of the nuptials, the period of which was looked forward to with the most pleasing anticipations by all parties, the unpleasing incidents of the evening to which our narrative has thus far been mainly devoted, having long since ceased to furnish them with a theme for conversation, and rarely indeed recurring to any of their thoughts. One fine summer's evening, as Keeshna was engaged in reading, for the amusement of Jauny and her father, in a saloon in the house of the latter, which opened upon a small flower garden, at the upper end of the quadrangle of the inner court, a domestic entering announced the appearance of a Fakeer (or religious mendicant) at the outer gate, who refused to give his name, but professed to be the bearer of a letter for the Baboo Bajerow Puar, which he refused to deliver into any other hands than those of him to whom it was addressed. Bajerow ordered him to be admitted, and presently afterwards the stranger, whom his fringed cap of a conical form proclaimed to belong to the Seik sect of Udassies, presented himself, putting off his slippers as he entered the verandah, and then advancing into the room, after repeated prostrations and other acts of humility, presented a letter to Bajerow, who, as he took it into his hands, eyed the bearer with a steadfast and scrutinous gaze.

"This letter," said the obsequious messenger, "has been my peculiar object of care, during a painful journey of several hundred miles. I have borne it from the city of Lahore."

"And to whom," inquired Bajerow, "am I indebted for this communication, at the cost of so much care and pains in the delivery?"

"That," replied the stranger, "which it is intended should remain a secret between ourselves, you will learn from the perusal of its contents."

Bajerow, then requested Jauny and Keeshna to retire for a few minutes, and the eye of the stranger followed them with an eager gaze as they quitted the apartment, his lips quivering and turning pale, and his whole frame visibly affected with an agitation that his utmost efforts could scarcely subdue, his look when they disappeared from his sight being cast towards the floor. The stranger's commotion escaped not unobserved by the vigilant and searching glance of Bajerow, who felt indignant at the impertinence of so marked and rude a regard of his daughter on the part of a seeming mendicant, in whose general appearance there was an undefinable something that, from the first had raised a prepossession by no means in his favour, which was heightened by a vague and indistinct impression of having met him before, under circumstances of an unpleasant nature, the particulars of which, as well as the time and place of their occurrence, he had been puzzling his memory with a vain endeavour to recall. On reading the letter he found it purported to be written by one of his oldest friends residing at Lahore, whom he had neither seen nor heard from for several years past, and who solicited his attention and good offices to the bearer during a few days that his affairs would detain him at Hurdwar.

"Your name, it appears," said Bajerow, "is Neendoo Singh. The character of my friend's handwriting is much altered since I received his last letter; but, to be sure, it is many years since, and time works great changes in every thing. Have you been long acquainted with the writer of this letter?"

"I have known him," replied the messenger, "from my infancy, and have long enjoyed his friendship and confidence."

"I cannot," continued Bajerow, relaxing somewhat the sternness of his manner in addressing his visitor, "lodge you under my own roof, but I will secure you good quarters with a neighbour."

The stranger was manifestly chagrined at this announcement, but endeavoured to conceal his mortification and disappointment beneath a flow of ardent professions of gratitude to Bajerow for his condescension and kindness. At that moment a servant entered with a note, which he presented to Bajerow. It was from Keeshna, declaring his conviction that the pretended stranger was no other than Moodee, and stating that he was gone to procure the attendance of the tannahdar (or head of the police.) Bajerow, whose previous misgivings, confirmed by the cautious movements of the stranger to prevent a full observation of his features, and the studied slowness of his utterance and careful modulation of his voice in evidently artificial tones, had prepared him for the discovery of some imposture, felt at once convinced that the suspicion of Keeshna was correct. With an air of unconcern, however, he proceeded to make several inquiries, of the ordinary common-place description, concerning Lahore and various places in the route from thence; thus engaging him in conversation until the return of Keeshna with the tannahdar, accompanied by a party of peons (or police soldiers); when, addressing him by his proper name of Moodee, and pointing to the tannahdar, he told him that was the neighbour to whose care he should consign him, and who would convey him at once to a secure asylum. The soldiers entering at that instant, ere he could recover from the first effects of surprise at being thus unexpectedly discovered, the astonished Moodee found himself safely bound hand and foot by the police, and orders given them to carry him off to the chowkey (or guard-house.) Abandoning all farther effort to maintain his disguise, he vented his rage in imprecations of the bitterest curses on Bajerow and Keeshna, and every member of their respective families, and, foaming at the mouth with the violence of his denunciations, swore he would never rest until he had found means to accomplish his revenge for the indignities they had heaped upon him. On arriving at the chowkey, orders were given to search his person; on hearing which he became extremely agitated, and denied the right of any person to hold him in custody; his apprehension without having committed any offence, he declared to be illegal and unjust, and threatened with the punishment of the law any who. should persist in detaining him, or in offering any violence to his person. His appeal, however, as well as his denunciation, was in vain; he was stripped and two small daggers, of a peculiar pattern and extraordinary neatness of workmanship, were found carefully concealed in the folds of his vest. On being questioned as to the purpose for which he carried such weapons about him, he hesitated at first, but, after a pause of a few moments, said he had recently performed a long journey alone, and had furnished himself with them, as instruments of defence by the way. The manner in which he delivered this answer, together with the improbability of such diminutive weapons being chosen by a traveller for self-defence, gained him no credence for his statement. His garments were then subjected to a more minute examination, the progress of which he watched with symptoms of extreme anxiety, and, on the opening of a seam in the waistband of his drawers, a terrific imprecation burst from his lips and, with a groan of agony, he sunk insensible upon the floor. The secret thus disclosed was a small packet containing several doses of various sorts of poison of the most deadly nature, which left no doubt on the mind of the tannahdar of the desperate and malicious intentions with which the prisoner had contrived his insidious intrusion into the house of his former patron; and, when the detected caitiff was restored to consciousness of what was passing around him, that functionary, drily inquiring whether he had furnished himself with those also as instruments of defence on his journey, ordered him to be placed in a strong cell, and there kept in close confinement until his examination before the Rajah, on the third day following. The interval was employed, by Bajerow and the father of Keeshna, in collecting and arranging the evidence; and so strong was the case of projected murder by poison or assassination, which the well connected mass of direct and collateral circumstances seemed to establish against him, that little doubt was entertained of his being convicted and condemned to death, and, in that event, the testimony to his character was of such a description as, it was deemed, must render the execution of his sentence inevitable.

The appointed day of trial at length arrived, and a party proceeded to the dungeon to bring forth the prisoner, but Moodee was not there to be found, having effected his escape in a manner and under circumstances that excited the astonishment of the discomfited officers of justice at the daring nature and dexterity of the exploit. By exertions which, ironed as he was with heavy chains fastened by a leathern girdle round his waist, and rings of iron on each wrist and ancle, implied the possession of surprising muscular strength, he had dragged a large block of stone that served both for seat and couch, from the farther end of the dungeon to the side where, by mounting on it, he could reach the lowest part of the sloping roof at its junction with the wall, and, by removing the mouldering cement with an iron bar wrenched from the narrow aperture that admitted the light and air, he had made an opening sufficiently large for the passage of his body, and thus gaining the roof, fettered as he was, he had dropped into a by-lane that ran at the back of the watch-house, -- a depth that would have seemed to endanger the fracture of limbs that were even wholly unincumbered. The friends of Bajerow and Keeshna were filled with alarm at this evasion of Moodee, as the now too-well authenticated proofs of the depth of his cunning and the fertility of his mind in artful devices, with the audacity of his late attempt, his fiercely breathed vows of vengeance, and the persevering malignity with which the natives of those countries pursue their schemes of mischief, assured them of their lives being in constant jeopardy so long as he was at large. The most rigid search was immediately made of every hole and corner of the town, and of the country in a circuit of several miles, which was repeated at various times both by day and night for a week in succession, without discovering the slightest trace that could lead to his detection; and it was thence concluded that he, must have had friends at hand, by whose assistance he had been enabled on the instant to withdraw unobserved from that neighbourhood altogether.

For several weeks no member of either of the families whose peace was thought to be in danger from Moodee's designs ventured abroad unguarded, but no circumstance occurring to indicate any farther attempt at their molestation, and such precautions having been adopted by the tannahdar, as seemed to insure the immediate discovery of Moodee's return to the district, their fears at length subsided, and, with a renewal of their sense of security, such restraints as they had imposed upon themselves being laid aside, the families returned to their ordinary course of visiting, appearing in public, and entering into amusements as before any cause of alarm was known to exist. Keeshna had purchased an Arabian horse of distinguished pedigree and extraordinary beauty as a present for Jauny, and, as he was quitting the stable one day after seeing it properly groomed on its return from the morning's exercise, he was addressed by a stout and active looking, but shabbily attired fellow in the garb of a Mussulmaun, who solicited employment as a syce (or grass-cutter). Such a person being at that time wanted in his establishment he referred the applicant to his syce (or head groom,) by whom he was accordingly engaged. The next day, when all the other servants were assembled at dinner, the new grass-cutter, Ahmed Ali, as he called himself, was missing; and this circumstance being noticed, one of the helpers observed that he had seen him enter the stable of the prime Arabian. The fellow had evinced much alacrity in his business, but the wary groom had some misgivings as to the purity of such excessive zeal for the welfare of the stud as could lead one whose connexion with it was but a few hours old to neglect his own meal in order to attend upon a horse. Few servants absent themselves from their chief repast in the four and twenty hour3 through devotion to their master's interests -- he had never known a single instance of such conduct -- to purloin some portion of the master's property, indeed, was a motive that might be strong enough with some people to overpower the very natural desire to satisfy the cravings of the stomach, and upon that suggestion of his brain the prudent chief of the stud determined to have an eye upon his abstemious grasscutter's motions. He therefore quietly proceeded to ensconce himself in a nook, from which, unseen, he could command a perfect view of whatever occurred in the particular stable indicated; and scarcely had he attained his station, when he was astonished, in both his senses of seeing and hearing, to find his new Mussulman friend, Ahmed Ali, engaged in the act -- not indeed of any spoliation of his master's forage -- but, of offering up a Hindoo prayer to Siva, concluding with a supplication for success in some undertaking, the purport of which, from the suppressed tone and rapid utterance with which it was pronounced, he was unable to catch. The sound of a Hindoo prayer from Mussulman lips, -- an invocation to a Hindoo "idol," from a "true believing" follower of "the prophet" -- struck upon the ear of the listening groom as something so strangely inconsistent and irreconcileable with the due course of regular stable duty, that, without stopping for an instant to perplex himself with any attempts at a solution of the mystery, quitting his ambush unobserved, he straightway repaired to the residence of Bajerow, to communicate the extraordinary occurrence of which he had been a witness, forthwith, to his master, who was there spending the evening with a party of friends. No sooner had they heard the story related by the groom, than a suspicion arose in the minds of both Keeshna and Bajerow that it was their old arch enemy, Moodee, in another disguise; though, upon reflection, the circumstances under which he had presented himself, and the nature of the situation which he had chosen to occupy, seemed to render such a supposition highly improbable. They determined, however, upon an instant investigation of the matter, and, proceeding at once to the stable, they found the grass-cutter, who had concluded his devotions, apparently intent upon some unimportant piece of stable work, and noticed a somewhat of flurry in his manner on observing their approach. The groom, as had been preconcerted, after bestowing some commendations upon Ahmed for his attentiveness to his duties, hinted that, as there was an excellent well at hand, he had better avail himself of the opportunity it afforded, of adding to the favourable impression which his diligence had given them of his character, by the improvement of his personal appearance, which, from the dingy state of his skin, there could be no doubt a thorough good wash would speedily effect; and, he drily added, regular and perfect ablution, when practicable, was an obligation as essential to the "true believer" as prayer.

The surprise of the last observation caused the fellow to start, and, casting a searching side-long look at Bajerow, he turned his faltering and reluctant steps in the direction of the well, closely followed by Keeshna and the groom. On reaching the brink of the well he paused, and, affecting to be engaged in inward prayer, stooped slowly to reach the water, then solemnly commenced his ablutions, and appeared to be seriously occupied in the purification of his person, when the vigilance of his observers being suddenly diverted from- him to some distant object that presented itself at the moment, he seized the occasion, which he had been eagerly watching, and darted off with the rapidity of an affrighted deer towards the forest, which was at no great distance. The groom, a light active runner, of whom he had but a moment's start, followed in pursuit, but was speedily distanced, while Keeshna, who, in the mean time, had run back to the stable, slipping a fleet and fierce bloodhound laid him on the trail, and, ere the quick-footed fugitive could traverse the brief space that remained betwixt him and the boundary of the forest, the sagacious animal, fastening upon his neck, had pinned him to the ground. The terrified and bleeding captive was speedily secured, and with his neck dreadfully lacerated was reconducted to the stables; where, his disguise being completely removed, and his recognition as the escaped culprit Moodee having been completed, he was handed over to the custody of the tannahdar, who, having been summoned, was in attendance with a party of his soldiers, and in a few minutes after was once more lodged in the chowkey, with two sentinels placed over him, in an apartment deemed more secure than that which he had previously occupied. Every one now felt assured that this persevering and wily villain would at length be brought to justice; and the friends of the parties who had suffered so much in mental anxiety from his base machinations and repeated attempts at the destruction of their peace and happiness, if not of their lives, congratulated them on their approaching deliverance from the danger and annoyance which they had so long endured. Up to the middle of the night all remained secure; the sentinels, who might be seen, by the light of a lamp that was suspended from the ceiling in the middle of the apartment, sullenly pacing to and fro on each side of their charge, as he lay supine and powerless on the ground, were at that hour relieved. A considerable interval had subsequently passed when he succeeded in drawing his new guards into conversation; and, soon afterwards, finding their severity beginning to relax under the influence of the opium which they had indulged themselves in chewing, he prevailed upon them to furnish him with a small portion of the drug for the purpose of smoking. The tempting fragrance of the fumes, diffusing itself through the atmosphere of the room, ere long induced them to imitate the example of the prisoner; and, at length stupified, not more perhaps by the quantity of the narcotic which they had taken than by the increase of power it derived from the two-fold application of its influence, they sunk into a profound sleep. Assured, by the protracted and sonorous tones produced by their snoring, that their slumbers were deep and would probably be lasting, Moodee cautiously arose, and, by standing on tiptoe, contrived to reach the lamp so as, by means of its flame, to burn asunder the cord which bound his wrist; then arming himself with the weapons of one soldier and removing those of the other, he drew from the belt of the elder the massive key of his dungeon, and quietly unlocking the door, which he afterwards fastened on the outside, as speedily as the requisite degree of caution in his movements would admit, he effected his retreat from the precincts of the chowkey. When the morning dawned, the sleeping guards were with difficulty awakened by the loud and repeated hammering, at the door, of their comrades appointed to relieve them on their post. The intoxicating effect of their debauch was not yet entirely dispelled, when the elder of the soldiers, after fumbling sometime at his girdle, sullenly desired his drowsy companion to hand him the key. "I know nothing at all about the key," grumbled the latter, "but I wish you'd just be so civil as to give me back my arms." A loud cry of horror from the former speaker announced his discovery of the cause and extent of their embarrassment, in the prisoner's escape, which operated like magic upon both, in their instantaneous restoration to perfect sobriety; and their consternation was excessive, as they became conscious of the severity of punishment which then unpardonable dereliction of their duty must entail upon themselves. Great was their outcry and bitter their wailing in consequence. The alarm was instantly given, and an immediate search made in the vicinity, by which it was speedily found that Moodee had stolen one of the tannahdar's most valuable horses to aid him in his flight; but of the course which he had taken not the slightest trace could be discovered. The head of the police, on learning the particulars of his prisoner's escape, despatched parties of horsemen in every direction in pursuit of the fugitive. The thickest recesses of the forest were penetrated; every thicket and jungle was explored; not a bush, nor a hollow, nor a patch of grass was left unexamined; the search had been unremittingly continued during the day, throughout a circuit of twenty miles on every side of the town; the sun was now on the point of sinking behind the lofty summits of a range of distant mountains, whose towering peaks glowed like pinnacles of burnished gold amidst the reflected effulgence of his declining rays, but not a gleam of hope remained to gladden the pursuers with the slightest prospect of a successful termination of their enterprise. Most of the parties detached had, accordingly, already retraced some part of their way homeward, and that which was headed by Keeshna was, at length, on the point of abandoning farther search for the present as hopeless, when a surwan (or camel-driver) gave an alarm, and pointing towards a remote part of the jungle from which they were then emerging, announced that he had noticed an uncommon stir in that quarter. The whole body instantly moved off at a gallop in the direction of the spot pointed out, but ere they could reach it, a single horseman, well mounted, was seen to start at full speed away from their approach. Their horses were nearly blown, and quite jaded from their previous exertions, while that of the fugitive was evidently fresh, and its energies, stimulated to the utmost by an unsparing application of whip and spurs, fairly bade them defiance. The bloodhound, which had been successfully despatched after the same fugitive on his former flight, was at this time mounted behind Keeshna's groom, with whom he had ridden nearly all the day, and his master called out for him to be immediately laid on. The sagacious brute quickly took up the trail, and in a very brief time had successfully run his course. The horse which Moodee rode, though extremely fleet and full of mettle, was small, and the hound, soon overtaking him, was able at one spring to gain a footing upon his back, with his fangs firmly fixed in the neck of the rider. The latter, terrific as was the nature of this assault, seemed not for an instant to lose his self-possession or abate in vigour. By plying well his spurs he kept his horse to the top of his speed, and, drawing a small dagger from his belt, he dealt repeated stabs in the body to his four-footed antagonist. From the peculiarity of their relative positions, and the necessity of making his blows back-handed, and frequently in such a direction as to glance obliquely from the animal's ribs, it was long before he could make them tell with any decided effect; but they served, in the mean time, by exasperating the ferocious creature and causing him to shake his head with furious violence, to add to his own torture. This fearful species of contest had therefore lasted some time, when weakened by loss of blood, the fainting hound gradually relaxed the rigour of his bite, and Moodee at length, by a desperate effort, succeeding in shaking him off, he fell dead upon the road. Moodee then, continuing to urge his horse at his utmost speed, and favoured by the gathering darkness of the night, was soon wholly lost to the sight of his pursuers.

This result was extremely mortifying both to the tannahdar and to Keeshna, whose parties, having fallen in with each other, had joined in the chase. The latter, however, inferring from the quantity of blood with which the road was dyed for a considerable distance, and the severity of the previous attack which he had sustained from the bloodhound, that Moodee's strength could not last for a much longer continuation of his fatiguing journey, and that fever ensuing must probably unfit him for some time for resuming his course, proposed that a selection should be made of the best men and freshest horses, at the head of which he would proceed onward to the village for which Moodee had appeared to be making, and which, as the country was open and they would shortly have the benefit of the rising moon to light them on their way, they might hope to be able to reach before the night should be far advanced. This suggestion was immediately adopted, and while the tannahdar, with the main body, returned to Hurdwar, Keeshna, with the choice men of the party, pushed on for the village, which was above twenty miles distant. It was nearly four hours before they arrived at the end of their journey, and the inhabitants had almost all retired to rest. They, however, succeeded in procuring accommodation for the night; but all Keeshna's inquiries, which he was diligent in making, failed to elicit the slightest intelligence of the person of whom they were in quest. At an early hour of the following morning he renewed his inquiries, and learned, at length, that late on the preceding evening a traveller had arrived at a private house in the village, which was pointed out to him, who was said to be badly mangled by a tiger, by which he had narrowly escaped being devoured, and that his death had been expected almost every moment, from the dreadfully inflamed state of his wounds and the great loss of blood he had sustained. Keeshna, with two or three of his friends, proceeded immediately to the house in question, which was the first that presented itself on the approach to the village by the road from Hurdwar; as they entered the room where the sufferer lay, -- a shocking and disgusting object, from the mass of mangled flesh and clotted gore which he presented, -- though apparently in the agony of death he immediately recognised his visitors, and venting a horrible groan he made a violent effort to rise, which apparently exhausted the little of strength that had remained to him, for his face underwent the most frightful contortions, and he fell backward in a state of total insensibility. The lacerated condition of his neck and body excited their surprise that he could have so long supported the degree of suffering which he must have endured; satisfied, however, that death had at length put an end to his power of working them farther mischief, Keeshna and his party withdrew, and shortly afterwards left the village, having previously made known the real character of Moodee, and the circumstances under which they had pursued him thither. The result of their expedition diffused unmixed delight among the members of both families on their return to Hurdwar; for although every one felt convinced that Moodee was but the agent employed to forward the designs of some yet undiscovered and probably more influential person; yet his removal, unaided as his schemes had hitherto appeared to be by the efforts of any active accomplice, and all that could be learnt of him, indicating a distant region as the residence of his employer, seemed to promise a degree of security and freedom from annoyance to which they had long been strangers.

CHAPTER II.

The sensation caused by the occurrences related in the preceding chapter having subsided, an interval of repose ensued, which enabled both parties to review at leisure the peculiar circumstances of their respective situations. The ceremony of the betrothal of Jauny to Keeshna had been performed; the period for the solemnization of their nuptials was fixed; and their friends on both sides, according to Oriental custom on such occasions, were busily occupied in the preparing and forwarding of presents, and in the necessary arrangements for the parts they severally proposed to take in that grand and important ceremony. Though assured of the ardour and sincerity of those vows of affection which had been interchanged between them, and firm in their mutual confidence in each other's truth and constancy, both parties were anxious for the conclusion of the rites, by which their union would be secured from any impediment, and all fear of danger or interruption to their future happiness, from the interference of others, would be entirely removed. Keeshna, in particular, conscious of the inestimable value of the prize, of which he was about to obtain possession, and of the number and power of the rivals, who, jealous of the success of his addresses against their pretensions, viewed with envy the happy lot which fortune seemed to have in store for him, looked to the consummation of his wishes as the means of allaying in their minds those feelings of irritation which the protracted expectation of the event that was utterly to extinguish their hopes only served to inflame.

Jauny, on her side, was far from insensible to the envy, pique and chagrin, which the preference of so many of the most distinguished by rank, fortune and personal endowments among the young men of Hurdwar, had excited against her, in many a fair bosom which their transient attentions had fluttered with momentary hopes of conquest; and she longed for the moment when her friendly intercourse with more than one of the companions of her youth, which those feelings had suspended, should be renewed, through the irrevocable binding of her fate with that of Keeshna. Neither did she overlook or undervalue the advantages which would be secured to her by that alliance.

Keeshna, at this period twenty-two years of age, was tall in stature, in personal figure well formed, with handsome features, a manly and expressive countenance, graceful carriage and a noble mien. His manners were bland and gentle, his address affable to inferiors, courteous to his equals, modest and respectful to his elders and superiors. His humane and charitable disposition rendered him beloved by the poor; his intelligence and the extent of his acquirements, for his natural endowments were great and neither expense nor pains had been spared in their cultivation, gained him the esteem of the learned; and the excellence of his moral character acquired him general admiration and respect. His wealth was great, his munificence princely, and his taste refined. His family was of high extraction and pure in its descent; and the personal character and admirable conduct of his father, Bahader Mohun Row, had greatly extended its influence. Many powerful considerations, therefore, united in fixing the attention of the heads of families, among their acquaintance, upon the eligibility of Keeshna as a son-in-law; and his many personal recommendations were readily admitted by their daughters. Numerous were the lures, in consequence, spread for the entanglement of his affections, which, however, had long been fixed upon Jauny, the sister of his friend and companion in boyhood, Madhajee Puar.

The union of this young couple having been settled to the delight and satisfaction of the parties and friends on both sides, in order to add as much as possible to the grandeur and eclat of the ceremonial, its solemnization was appointed to take place during the great fair, when it would best suit the convenience of many of the relations of both the bride and the bridegroom, who would be present at the festival, and were desirous of participating in the celebration of an event in which they all felt a lively interest; and it was also expected that the splendour of the occasion would be heightened by the most distinguished strangers, who attended the fair, joining in the train of the procession as is customary. Every thing was accordingly put in preparation for conducting the various arrangements of the nuptial festivity on a scale of grandeur and magnificence commensurate with the rank, consideration and wealth of both families. Caravans of merchants and pilgrims, and parties of strangers from distant parts, resorting to the fair from various motives, began to arrive at a much earlier period than usual in ordinary years; and every thing seemed to indicate that the concourse of visitors would greatly exceed, both in numbers and in wealth, and in the pomp and splendour of their retinue, any that had been seen at either of the fairs for many years past.

Among the persons of distinction, for whom accommodation was already provided, was a Prince of Cashmere, who was much spoken of, as one of the handsomest, most munificent and accomplished among the youthful princes and nobles of the east. The ostensible motive of his visit was to bathe in the holy Ganga (Ganges;) but his real object, if possible, to carry off the fair Jauny, -- "the Rose of Hurdwar," -- of whose beauty he had been enamoured by the glowing descriptions which he had read and heard, and which seemed to him more than realized, in a view which he had obtained of her person at the Sudder Bazaar, on a private trip which he had been induced to make to Hurdwar, for the express purpose of beholding her whose charms were so widely celebrated. The sight had inflamed his passion to the highest degree, and the impediment to its gratification, which her rumoured attachment to Keeshna presented, preyed upon his spirits and made him restless and unhappy. His father, Futteh Khan, a bold and ruthless chief, who never suffered any considerations of justice or regard for the rights of others, which force, or fraud, or conception could surmount, to thwart his designs either of ambition or voluptuousness, on discovering the cause of his disquietude, had thus addressed him: -- "What, at your age and with your means, pine and fret for a pretty toy -- which you tamely allow another to appropriate! Wherefore are you possessed of wealth and power? If you would have the Rose of Hurdwar, can you not take her? The boldness of the enterprize that should make her your own would be no slight recommendation to the grace and favour of any woman." Stimulated by these truly characteristic paternal remonstrances, Muzaffir Khan, who, though young, was as unprincipled a voluptuary and as daring and reckless a marauder as his parental monitor, had resolved upon attempting the hazardous achievement thus suggested, and, with a view to its accomplishment, had set out with a numerous and splendid retinue on the pilgrimage to Hurdwar.

CHAPTER III.

The appointed and anxiously expected day at length arrived, and the forenoon having been consumed in the interchange of presents between the bride and bridegroom, and the reception by both of visits of congratulation from their respective friends, accompanied with presents, according to established usage, the rest of the day was occupied in the marshalling and conducting of the procession, which, in numbers, splendour, and solemnity, exceeded that of any similar celebration within the recollection of the oldest inhabitants of Hurdwar. Late in the afternoon it set forth in the following order:

A troop of fifty horsemen, of the warlike tribe called Jogies, in black velvet dresses, with turbans of the same, fastened under the chin. They were mounted on white horses, and armed with spears, the shafts of which were painted white, and they were employed to clear the way in front of the procession:

Ten large elephants, splendidly caparisoned and painted in curious devices and symbols of the various divinities of the Hindoo mythology. Each had a row of bells suspended from his neck, and a tiger skin saddle cloth on his back, and carried a howdah (or covered seat) of gold or silver, on which rode a distinguished pundit, or learned Brahmin of high rank, with an attendant flourishing a chowry, or whisk made of the tufted milk white tail of the Tibet cow, to keep off the flies and other winged insects, which the heat of the weather rendered extremely troublesome, to the foreheads of the priests in particular, which were anointed with cocoa nut oil and powdered sandal wood:

Twenty black camels, caparisoned with black trappings, and their riders also clothed in black. Each of these had a belt of small bells round his neck, and carried on his back a small swivel and twenty rockets, which were discharged at stated intervals:

Twenty men on foot, each in a different dress from his companions, carrying flags of different colours:

Twenty musicians on horseback, in uniforms of yellow, trimmed with gold:

Twenty nautch, or dancing girls, in scarlet dresses trimmed and embroidered in gold, with small bells of gold and silver attached to their wrists and ankles:

Twenty men on foot, in dresses of blood red laced with gold, singing stanzas in praise of the bride, -- the Rose of Hurdwar:

Twelve aged men in black cloth habits, with loose flowing tresses of grey hair, of which each held a lock in his right hand, emblematic of age:

Twelve beautiful girls in plain white muslin dresses, with wreaths of half blown roses in their right hands, -- emblems of youth and beauty:

Twelve boys, each carrying a tool or implement of trade, to indicate the propriety of early habits; of industry. They were dressed in patchwork, to denote that honest poverty was no disgrace:

Ten doolies (or plain litters) in which were as many priests of inferior rank, in dresses of coarse cloth stained with ochre:

Ten young men of the kindred of the bride and bridegroom, mounted on small horses of a high-mettled breed richly caparisoned; the riders dressed in pink and silver, with small spears in their right hands:

Ten splendid palanquins of purple and gold, each with its double set of bearers, carrying young female relations of the bride and bridegroom, attended by two elderly male relations riding one on each side:

A grand band of music:

Twenty poets, walking four abreast;

Twenty jugglers, also four abreast:

Twenty rope dancers:

Twenty tumblers:

Ten fighting elephants, each fully caparisoned, with chains fastened to their trunks, and carrying six men in suits of chain armour over dresses of of black leather:

Ten camels, as before described:

A grand military band of music:

Five companies (of one hundred each) of foot soldiers, of the Gorkah tribe, in scarlet uniform, marching in file so as to form a street, within which was -- 

The bride's palanquin, one of the most superb and costly articles of Oriental luxury and pomp ever exhibited, supported by eight richly attired bearers, and guarded, on the right by Baboo Bajerow Puar, the father of the bride, and on the left by Bahader Mohun Row, the father of the bridegroom, in plain dresses of crimped muslin, without any ornament but the embroidered belts and chased scabbards of their polished scimitars. Both were old men, but they sat their high-bred cream coloured Arabian chargers with an air at once graceful and dignified, which added much to their venerable appearance.

Then came Keeshna, sumptuously but tastefully attired, on a richly caparisoned milk white Arabian, of distinguished pedigree and full of mettle. He was supported on one side by Madhajee Puar, the brother of the bride, and on the other by a near relation of his own; both handsome and accomplished young men, fit to bear a leading part in such a spectacle.

Then followed a numerous and splendid company of guests, including nearly all the princes, nobles, and other distinguished visitors at the fair, who, with their retinue, attended to do honor to the nuptials of so deserving and celebrated a couple. These formed a large and splendid train; and after them marched five companies of Gorkah foot soldiers; four squadrons of Afghan horse followed, and a squadron of Jogies formed the rear guard.

Intermingled with the above described, which formed what might be termed the establishment of the nuptial procession, were bands of music, companies of jugglers, mimics, dancers (male and female) choruses of singers chanting stanzas in honor of the bride and bridegroom and their illustrious visitors, troops of itinerant venders of fruits, flowers, sweetmeats, and toys of all sorts from the fair, who scattered their respective stocks among the crowd, -- voluntary offerings made in expectation of being liberally repaid from the largesses which, as customary, were munificently distributed on the occasion.

The extent of the cortege was thus amazingly drawn out, and along its route every tree and wall was loaded with curious spectators; the terraces on the house tops, the verandahs and windows of every building decorated with tapestry and crowded with joyous groups of both sexes and all ages in every variety of costume, with seeming eagerness partaking of the gladness of the families immediately interested in the ceremony, while every street and way teemed with the multitudes whom various motives of business, pleasure, or devotion had drawn to the fair, forming a concourse of spectators probably exceeding two millions, who rent the air with the deafening shouts of joy and exultation, which they frequently sent forth under the impulse of the momentary excitement such a scene could not fail to produce. The chaos of mingling sounds that from time to time arose, from the thunder of artillery, the bursts of martial music, the booming sound of the large drums, the braying of trumpets, the clashing of gongs and cymbals, the jingling of bells of all sorts and sizes, the mellow sounding of horns, the sweet mellifluous tones of clarionets and flutes, the swelling chorus of the singers, the murmuring hum of the countless throng, and the pealing clamour of successive cheers, struck upon the ear with an effect that completely bewildered the senses. The approach of night greatly augmented the brilliance, solemnity, and impressiveness of the spectacle; for no sooner were the gorgeous hues of a glorious sunset quenched in the descending shadows of evening, while the upturned eye gazed with delight on the serene beauty of an eastern sky, its vast concave of deepest blue richly bespangled with a countless host of brightly glowing stars, than ten thousand rockets, streaming upwards with their trains of fire, appeared to fill the whole atmosphere with flame, and instantly a myriad of flambeaux distributed along the line of the procession, with innumerable clusters of painted lanthorns and variegated lamps suspended from the verandahs and housetops were lighted up, and shed around a flood of light more dazzling and garishly bright than even that of day.

At certain stations, the procession halted while the criers proclaimed the names, titles, and pedigree of both the bride and bridegroom; and great was the rush, on those occasions, among the host of young men of quality who were in attendance, to get a near view of the former, whose charms had enamoured many, and were the theme of praise and admiration with all. The pressure, in consequence, became extremely inconvenient and even oppressive. One individual in particular, made himself conspicuous by the frequency, violence, and perseverance of his repeated efforts to approach the palanquin; and his conduct in that respect, became at length so offensively rude, that Jauny's brother, by whom it had all along been noticed, could no longer refrain from remonstrating against such impertinence.

"Your repeated efforts," said he, "to force your way to a particular point of our procession, which I have observed from the first, bear about them a character of deliberate and studied insult, which, if persisted in, must provoke chastisement. Who are you, sir, that have thus presumed to attempt the disturbance of the harmony which the honour of our family requires should be maintained at this festivity?"

A hundred voices exclaimed in answer,"it is Muzaffir Khan, son of the renowned Futteh Khan, Prince of Cashmere, the descendant of a thousand princes, and hero of a hundred fights."

"Oh!" said Keeshna, eying the party with a glance of indignant contempt, "his fame has already reached us; and the impudence and indecency of his conduct on this occasion are in perfect keeping with the character which has been long assigned to him. Let him seek another theatre for the exhibition of his scandalous exploits, or not all his own boldness, backed by his father's celebrity, may suffice to protect him from the punishment which will assuredly await any renewal of his audacious bearing." The procession at that instant resuming its advance, the rebuked prince fell into the rear without offering any reply, though stung to the quick by the cutting reproaches of Keeshna. Sparks of vengeance at the moment seemed to flash from his eyes, and his hand clutched the hilt of his sword; but something whispered into his ear by a hoary veteran who rode beside him, seemed to have an instantaneous effect in calming his rage, and they both presently retired together, without further notice from the attendants of Keeshna, who attributed the rudeness of the prince merely to the determination to gratify his curiosity by obtaining a close and full view of the person of the bride; and full two hours elapsed, after their departure, without any thing occurring to revive the recollection of this disagreeable incident.

The gong was on the point of striking twelve when the procession halted opposite the temple and sacred well of Chandni Devi. The temple is a lofty structure, surmounted by the trisool or trident of Mahadeva, and stands within a high wall inclosing the well, in the centre of the front of which is the entrance, by a large gateway of curious workmanship, to which a numerous flight of steps ascends from the river. Hither the bride and bridegroom, with their families and immediate attendants, were to cross over for the purpose of paying their devotions at the shrine of their tutelar deity, and preparatory to this act of worship the bride was to bathe in the sacred stream of the Ganges. For this purpose a portion of the river had been enclosed, over which was erected a handsome pavilion, tastefully decorated, which neither pains nor expense had been spared to render as commodious as it could possibly be made for the occasion. Into this building Jauny entered on descending from her palanquin, attended only by her two handmaids to assist her in the necessary changes of dress for the operation of bathing, but to perform the latter she proceeded down the temporary steps that led to her bath alone, Keeshna, with both their parents and the whole of their assembled male relations, forming a cordon from point to point of which they completely hemmed in the shore, above and below the pavilion, to prevent the approach of any unauthorized intruder. Scarcely had the beauteous creature plunged into the limpid stream when a piercing shriek was heard from within the enclosure, followed by the awful words "the alligators! the alligators!" Keeshna, with his father and Bajerow and Madhajee, rushed at once into the bath, but the fair bride had disappeared, leaving not a trace behind. All was consternation in an instant, and the cries of horror which resounded from the men, mingled with the shrieks of terror and wailing lamentations of the women, with the wild and hurried looks and gestures of all formed a scene of dismay, such as no power of language can adequately describe. A large reward was immediately offered for the recovery of the lost bride, and a few minutes served to exhibit the surface of the Ganges covered with boats of every size and description, lighted up with flambeaux and lanthorns, and gliding about in all directions, forming a perfect scene of enchantment, from the brilliancy of this floating illumination reflected a thousand fold in the bright waters of that clear and placid river. Hundreds of divers were seen in all directions plunging into the deepest parts of the river in search of the missing beauty, and among the foremost and most active of these was her doating and distracted bridegroom. But vain were all their efforts, and what rendered the matter still more mysterious was that in no part was the water found to be discoloured with blood, or any other trace discovered of the appearance of any crocodile or alligator. Worn out at last with the excess of his anguish, and overcome with the lassitude and fatigue consequent on the violence of his exertions, the disconsolate youth at length crawled ashore, to appearance almost dead, and lay for a considerable time in a state of almost total insensibility, surrounded by his friends, who rent the air with the piercing exclamations of frantic grief wrung from their despair. At length, suddenly starting on his feet, he exclaimed -- "The Prince of Cashmere, Muzaffir Khan!" and then, with his whole countenance glowing with rage, from some strong conviction that seemed to have flashed across his mind at the instant, -- "To horse!" he cried, and rushing from the temple quickly vaulted into his saddle, and galloped off at the head of a large party of his friends and their retainers. Clearing their way through the astonished multitude that thronged the streets, they proceeded at once to the mansion which had been occupied by the party of Muzaffir Khan, where they were informed that the whole of his equipage and attendants had taken their departure at an early hour of the evening. This circumstance, coupled with the extraordinary behaviour of the prince during the procession, served at once, in the now excited apprehension of the distracted Keeshna, to connect him with the mysterious disappearance of the bride. In this suspicion his father concurred, and a rigid search was immediately made in every quarter of the city and its environs, even to the villages for several miles beyond the town of Kunkul, but the morning dawned without any discovery that was in the slightest degree satisfactory. The pavilion and bath were minutelyexamined by Madhajee, and it was thereby discovered that a plank had been removed from the bottom of the enclosure of the latter, on the outside in the river; which left upon the minds of all a firmly impressed conviction that the fair Jauny had been forcibly carried off in pursuance of a deliberate and cunningly devised plan, to further the villanous designs of some powerful and wealthy profligate, and circumstances pointed the general suspicion to the Prince of Cashmere, as the person most likely to be interested in the perpetration of such an outrage. It was, therefore, at once resolved that Keeshna and Madhajee, at the head of a numerous and well-appointed band, should set forth in pursuit of that haughty spoiler, and leave no means either of persuasion or menace, negotiation or force untried that might lead to the recovery of the dear object of which they were in quest.

CHAPTER IV.

Their arrangements were speedily completed, and a numerous party being formed, which the companions and school-fellows of both Keeshna and Madhajee, for the most part, eagerly joined, each with a couple of trusty attendants, and all well mounted, armed, and equipped at all points for a long and arduous enterprize, they set forth on their march. Judging that the route most likely to be taken by the prince would be by Lahore, they took the road for that city; and fired with indignation at the atrocity of the outrage and insult which had been put upon their friends, the bosoms of the whole party glowed with the most ardent desire to avenge it, and the generous enthusiasm of their youthful spirits had little need of the fervid and impassioned appeal which the anguish-wrung mind of the injured bridegroom induced him to make to their friendship, to stimulate them to a fixed resolve never to. abandon the enterprize on which they had set forth while a chance of success remained. Nor were they slow to indulge in the most confident expectations of a successful issue to their exertions. They accordingly pursued their journey at a rapid rate, and had arrived within a few miles of the town of Saharunpoor, where they had determined to halt for the night, when they obtained some information which seemed to confirm their impression that they were on the right track. A numerous retinue had been observed to pass that way at a very urgent pace, their horses apparently blown, and two Arabian horses were found turned loose to graze at a short distance from the road side, which were lame, and bore evident marks of having broken down under the severity of recent exertion. Inspirited by this intelligence the party pushed forward with renewed vigour, and reached their appointed halting place early in the afternoon. The whole party were here to seek the requisite refreshment and repose for themselves and their horses; and in order to facilitate the obtaining of such information as they might deem it expedient to seek, it was determined, as they approached the place, that Keeshna and Madhajee, with a couple of attendants, changing their dresses for others of an inferior description, should enter the town separately from the remainder of the troop, in order that no suspicion arising out of their connection with it should attach to the inquiries which they might think proper to make. Accordingly, when the-whole were settled in their respective quarters, after partaking of a slight repast, they proceeded upon their task of exploring the route of the fugitives-, in whose rear they had been following. They had pursued their investigation for some time without gleaning any information of a nature sufficiently definite to guide them in the course which they should take; and as it was near sunset they were about to return to their quarters for the night, when one of Keeshna's friends observing a robust looking elderly man pass out through the gateway of the principal choultry, or inn, of the place, accosted him with an inquiry as to his having seen or observed a party of Cashmerian travellers of distinction lately passing that way, with some appearance of haste. The old fellow eyed the questioner with a peculiar grim smile, and then glancing an angry frown on Keeshna, who at that moment came up, grumbled out a negative, and hurried muttering away. As there had been nothing remarkable that could have been construed as uncourteous or improper in any respect, either in the question addressed to him or in the manner of putting it, the extraordinary mode of treating it adopted by the stranger would at any time have caused surprise; but under the peculiar circumstances in which the parties were placed it was not unnatural that it should, in some degree, arouse their suspicions of his being somehow informed of the business in which they were engaged, and not improbably someway connected with the party of whom they were in pursuit. Otherwise, nothing, in their opinion, but aberration of mind could account for the gross and insulting rudeness of which he had been guilty. Keeshna, therefore, inquired of a youth who was passing at the instant, whether he knew the old man who had just turned his back on their party.

"Know him? to be sure!" returned the youth, "he is too well known in this quarter, of which he has been the terror and the pest for many a year. And is it possible that you don't know him, Sahib?" concluded he, with an accent of surprise.

"I cannot say that I do," answered Keeshna, "but what is his name?"

"Oh!" returned his informant, "many are the names which he has had at different times, when the part he had taken in some deed of fraud or violence has required concealment; but his real name is said to be Moodee."

This announcement caused Keeshna to give an involuntary start, and, gasping with astonishment, he loudly repeated "Moodee!"

"Yes," replied the communicative stranger, "and I do not wonder at your starting at the sound of the name of one who is believed to have a hand in every piece of villany that is committed even far beyond the Doab. It is not very long since that he engaged a dissolute young blade of this town to assassinate a young nobleman of Hurdwar named Keeshna, and as the fellow never appeared afterwards, and is known to have failed in his attempt, it is pretty generally believed that the old villain put him out of the way to prevent discovery; but the man had mentioned the nature of the business upon which he was proceeding to some of his companions before he went away."

The excess of Keeshna's agitation from the greatness of his surprise at this discovery had nearly betrayed him to the stranger, but, exerting himself to retain his self-possession, he said, "I remember to have heard of this Moodee before, but he was reported to have been worried to death by a bloodhound that overtook him in the pursuit, when he had escaped from the prison at Hurd war."

"Ah!" replied the youth, smiling, "that was as deep a trick as ever was played. The story is very well known through this town, for he was too much elated with the success of his cunning to keep the secret. His pursuers, on that occasion, came up with him at the next village from this place on the road to Hurdwar, where he had been obliged to take to his bed, in consequence of the dreadful mangling he had suffered from the attack of the bloodhound. They entered the room where he was lying, and, to prevent their removing him, he pretended to expire of convulsions in their presence; but no sooner had they left the place, and the people of the house set about commencing the preparations for his funeral, than the supposed corpse, passing out through the window, quickly repaired to the stable, and was shortly afterwards seen mounted on a horse at full gallop along the road in this direction."

Keeshna nearly bit his lip through with vexation, while listening to this account of the manner in which he had been imposed on by the crafty villain's artifice, and turning aside to one of his friends, he vowed, in an under tone, that if once more he came within his sword's length of Moodee, he would not fail to ascertain his death by passing a steel probe through his heart.

"It was but last night, or rather early this morning," resumed the youth, elated with the interest which his narrative seemed to have excited in his hearers, "that the old rogue returned from Hurdwar fair, where he succeeded by stratagem in carrying off the fair Jauny, the Rose of Hurdwar, from her wedding feast, for the Prince, Muzaffir Khan, of Cashmere, who now is far away on the road to Lahore with his beautiful prize."

Keeshna, slipping a gold mohur into the hand of his imformant, thanked him for the very interesting recital with which he had entertained them, and moving off with his friends desired them to get the whole of the party in readiness forthwith to resume their pursuit. As they were entering their inn for that purpose, Moodee was' seen riding off at full speed towards the Lahore road, and such was the rapidity of his motion that he had nearly passed them without being recognized. They now learned that a part only v of the Prince of Cashmere's retinue had passed through that place, the remainder having taken a circuitous route to avoid suspicion or distract the attention of any parties despatched in pursuit. Jauny, however, had been recognized through the blinds of the litter in which she was carried by a person well acquainted with her features, who, knowing that to have been the night appointed for her wedding, had mentioned his suspicions that there must have been some foul practice on the occasion. Keeshna and his party were nearly ready to depart when three of his followers, for whom he had been waiting with impatience, entered his apartment with a man attired in a Persian costume, whom they had been induced to take into custody by his asking them,

as they were strolling about the environs of the town, to direct them to the residence of Moodee. They now proceeded to search him, and, in the folds of his turban, they found a letter addressed to Moodee in the following terms:

"Village of Mootee Gunga."

"Faithful Moodee, -- I arrived here early this morning, but could proceed no farther on account of the illness of my prize. Join me to-night, for I am much in want of your assistance, having none about me in whom I can so well confide."

"Muzaffir."

Moodee, as we have stated, had already moved in anticipation of this command, -- a measure which his sagacity had prompted, the moment that his searching glance had penetrated through the disguise of Keeshna, the object of which was sufficiently manifest from the knowledge he had that a numerous party of horse from Hurdwar had halted in the outskirts of the town, which, though somewhat inferior in numerical strength, greatly exceeded in efficiency the escort of the prince, and would, therefore, have an easy task in defeating the object which he had so long' and assiduously laboured to secure, unless a timely warning of their approach should enable the latter to avail himself of some advantageous position for sustaining the attack. Keeshna was on the instant sensible of the advantage which his adversary would derive from Moodee's promptitude; but, confident in the zeal and devotion of his determined band, and inspirited by the certainty which the intelligence thus gained afforded him of the position of his beloved Jauny, he gave directions that the messenger should be secured, and without a moment's delay, throwing himself into the saddle, put his party in motion at a quick pace in the direction of the village of Moodee Gunga. The distance was twenty miles; but the was road good, their horses were well refreshed, and, with the benefit of the clear and brilliant light of the full moon, he hoped to reach the spot before Muzaffir should have had time to quit it or to prepare for an effectual defence.

In the mean time, the atrocity of the outrage which had been perpetrated at such a period of festivity, while it filled with the bitterest anguish and dismay the two families whom it more immediately affected, the heads of which were dangerously ill in consequence, had spread a general gloom over the whole city of Hurdwar, and threatened to convert the remaining days of the fair into a period of profound and general mourning. A messenger, however, who had been despatched by Keeshna with a communication of the intelligence he had obtained of the intended delay of the marauders at Mootee Gunga, and his immediate departure and expectation of falling in with them at that place lighted up a ray of hope in every bosom -- that the interesting object of their painfully excited sympathies would yet be happily restored to their society; and, as couriers had been stationed by Keeshna at every ten miles of the route, to ensure the speediest possible communication of whatever should occur, the anxiety of the public mind for the next account of his operations was stretched to the uttermost. The first faint streak of approaching dawn was just glimmering in the east when the party, who were advancing in the east when the party, who were advancing upon Mootee Gunga, surmounting the brow of a hill which commanded the view of an extensive plain, outstretched before them, were enabled to discern the dark outline of its clustering houses and groves, at about two miles distance in their front. Some anxiety prevailed amongst them to learn the effect of the arrival of Moodee, of whom they had hitherto been unable to procure any tidings, as, from their advance having been made in the dead of the night, they had not encountered any person of whom they could make inquiry. Two travelling Gosains, however, now appeared advancing towards them, who, having received a tolerably bounteous alms, in answer to the inquiry whether they had met any horsemen between that spot and Mootee Gunga, stated that they had met one who appeared solicitous to evade observation, and, from marks of blood on his face and the lacerated condition of his horse's knees, they inferred that he had been thrown; they also added he was vainly using his utmost endeavours to urge his distressed animal to a trot.

"Forward!" cried Keeshna to his little band, who, clapping spurs to their steeds, pushed on at a hand gallop. Their intention was to surround the village, but as they drew near they found the troop of Muzaffir in bivouac outside on the quarter by which they were approaching. Neither outpost nor sentinel appeared; the latter probably having fallen asleep, and the former not having been deemed necessary by a party who seemed so little apprehensive of attack. On turning an angle of the road, about a quarter of a mile distant from the village, they perceived a horseman on a foundered steed on the point of entering it, who was evidently making very forcible exertions to get forward. Some were for pushing on to overtake him, but Keeshna preferred at once attacking the whole body before they should be formed in any order of defence. "Advance! trot!! charge!!!" cried he in quick succession, and such was the rapidity with which his purpose was executed, that the clattering of their horses' hoofs along the hard road on which they were galloping, the clash of their arms and accoutrements, the shouts of excited enthusiasm from the band of gallant youths led by Keeshna, and the cries of terror and alarm from the agitated Moodee, who had by this time passed within their ground, had scarcely disturbed the sleeping guard when his advance post was in the midst of his enemy's force, and the astonished troopers awakened only to perceive the destruction that was dealing around them. Not twenty men of the troop thus surprised could be formed into a line ere they were broken and borne down, and quick and sweeping was the havoc among their numbers that ensued. Many were shot or speared through as they lay sleeping on the ground, more were cut down in the act of rising to mount their horses, and the remainder fled in the most disordered confusion, pursued by their victorious assailants with fierce slaughter through the village, in the centre of which they made a confused and unsuccessful attempt to rally, but were dispersed and betook themselves, panic-struck, to the high road for Lahore and the various avenues from the village into the wood that skirted it, a part of Keeshna's force being detached to keep up the pursuit and prevent them from again making head. The whole village was aroused and thrown into the utmost consternation, and Keeshna with his followers blockaded every avenue, and the building in which Muzaffir Khan, with his prize, was lodged having been pointed out to them, was immediately surrounded. The inmates commenced a smart fire from the windows upon the assailants, and the door was strongly barricaded within; but the latter soon yielded to the shock of a large and ponderous beam, which, being brought to bear upon it in the manner of an ancient battering-ram, after a few strokes made a clear opening. Keeshna, followed by a dozen of the boldest of his party, dashed in, sword in hand, and were met by a volley from each of two parties posted on the stair-cases leading up to each wing of the building. Keeshna made for that on the right, and with a determined rush established himself on the first landing, where he was encountered by his old enemy Moodee, who attacked him with the fiercest and most desperate energy. Keeshna, finding himself thus boldly pushed, stood cautiously upon the defensive and, deliberately parrying a multitude of blows and thrusts, at length, wounded his furious assailant through the sword arm, and then passed his reeking blade through the wretch's body, and one of his party at the same instant shooting him through the head closed his career of life and villany at once. In the mean time, Madhajee had led on another party to the assault of the stair-case leading up to the other wing of the building, on their left, which was vigorously defended by a party of spearmen, under the direction of the prince in person, who succeeded in repelling the first onset. Madhajee then -- calling some others to his aid -- placed six of his strongest men in front, three abreast, with orders to ascend and, instead of using their own weapons, to seize the spears of their opponents and turn them aside, so as to enable him and the remainder of the party to pass up. This arrangement having been quickly made they mounted again to the assault with redoubled energy. At this moment the voice of Jauny was heard from above, in earnest and impassioned entreaty for forbearance, addressed to some person apparently endeavouring to bind her. This circumstance was quickly reported to Keeshna, who, repairing thither, rushed with eager impetuosity up the lower flight of stairs, and gaining the head of the attacking party was quickly engaged hand to hand with the individual left in command of the spearmen, the prince having at this time disappeared. The spears being now rendered useless, by the melee of the contending parties, recourse was had to the more destructive armoury of pistols, swords, and daggers, and the close combat raged with the utmost fury for several minutes, when, the numbers of the Cashmerians being thinned by the death-dealing efforts of their resolute assailants, they retreated to the corridor so closely pressed that they were unable to close the doors ere their ardent pursuers, bursting in, made good their position within the entrance. After a moment's pause the combat was renewed with augmented numbers and renovated energy, and Keeshna with a few others having succeeded in cutting a passage through the defenders of the corridor threw themselves against the door of an apartment from which they had heard the voice of the prince, and forcing it from the hinges brought their master-foe to bay. With the discharge of one pistol he stretched a cousin of Keeshna's lifeless at his feet, and another levelled at the latter having missed its aim, ere he could raise his sword to guard himself, that of his injured opponent, directed with a steady hand, had nearly severed his head from his shoulders, and staggering backward, with a half uttered imprecation, the worsted Muzaffir Khan fell dead upon the floor.

On a couch at the farther end of the vast apartment was Jauny, just reviving from a fainting fit into which she had fallen, from fright and exhaustion, at the moment of the forcible entry made by her friends; and, on hearing the extatic exclamation of her beloved Keeshna, as rushing towards her he called upon her name, she sprung into his embrace and sunk upon his bosom, again overcome by the excess of her emotions which were now, however, derived from the opposite source -- of joy and happiness in the assurance of her deliverance and safety from further peril, too great for her strength to support in so sudden a change, after the terror and anxiety she had so lately undergone. The prompt and assiduous attention of her anxious friends shortly succeeded in restoring her recollection, and, under the beneficial influence of the happy change in her fortunes, she soon recovered her tranquillity in a sufficient degree to discourse with Keeshna and her brother upon her recent adventures.

She informed them that, the moment she had entered the water, she was seized and drawn through the side of the bath facing outwards towards the river, and had scarcely time to utter an outcry before she was plunged beneath the stream, having caught but a momentary glimpse of the features of her captor as be dragged her under, when she knew it was Moodee. When she recovered her senses, she found herself moving with great rapidity through the air, supported in the arms of a horseman who was urging forward his fleet Arabian, at a rate at which few of the numerous escort that followed were enabled to keep up with him. It was not long ere she discovered that she was in the power of the celebrated Muzaffir Khan, of Cashmere, who tried every art of persuasion to pacify her mind and calm her troubled spirits. They continued their route with scarcely a moment's pause until they arrived at Mootee Gunga, where the indisposition brought on by the excessive terror and agitation she had endured became so alarmingly increased, that Muzaffir, who believed that he should not be suspected of her abduction, determined to halt there for a day, in the hope of her recovery.

The surviving remnant of Muzaffir's train having taken flight from the village, the labours of Keeshna's gallant band were terminated; and, on mustering their strength, they ascertained their loss not to exceed ten killed and about thirty wounded; and, a courier being despatched to Hurdwar to announce the successful result of their expedition, it was determined that they should stay at Mootee Gunga the remainder of that day and the night ensuing, to rest from their fatigue and to afford leisure for Jauny's perfect restoration to health and tranquillity. Accordingly at an early hour the next morning, being the concluding day of the fair at Hurdwar, they set out on their return thither, and at sunset fell in with a numerous and splendid train of their relations, friends, and fellow-townsmen, who had issued forth to meet them and escort them home in triumph.'

Their arrival diffused universal joy and gladness throughout the place, and, a few days afterwards, the union of Keeshna and Jauny was completed amidst the rejoicing of their friends, and the hearty congratulations of thousands of well-wishers.

They lived long and happily, surrounded by a numerous progeny, and so long as any of the number of the gallant and faithful band of friends survived, by whose exertions they had been restored to each other, the custom was maintained of celebrating the event of Jauny's recapture in an annual feast of great splendour, and it became a saying throughout the province, "if you would steal a wife, don't try it at Hurdwar fair."

THE FAKIR.

During the memorable and successful campaign undertaken by the British, under the Marquis of Hastings, in the year 1815, against the Nepaulese -- a warlike and cruel race of idolaters, of savage habits, and proverbial for their crafty stratagems and cold-blooded assassinations -- prudence dictated that the advance into their territory should be conducted with great caution, and the operations were consequently protracted and slow. It was most essential on this occasion that we should regulate our movements with the greatest circumspection, carefully avoiding that self-security and rashness too often engendered by the intoxication of success from former victories. A sudden surprise, or a slight failure, at the commencement of such a campaign, would probably have been followed by the most disastrous consequences; indeed, such an event, whenever it happens in war, is sure, for a time at least, to dispirit the invading army, and elate that of the enemy.

Our necessarily tardy progress lay through a country abounding with objects calculated to afford to a reflective mind abundant relief from the tedium of comparative inaction. The valley of Muckwanpoor, in which we took up our final position, was fertile and enchantingly beautiful. Several irregular but pure and limpid streams wound round the wood-clad hills which entombed, as it were, our handful of men; on the chain of mountains in front of our encampment, whose summits glittered in the sun, stood, like a white island seen from afar off, the fort of Muckwanpoor, surrounded with innumerable stockades, filled with men, whose hurried movements, variegated turbans, and dresses of all colours, glittering spears, and other implements of war, formed together a very gay and animated appearance. The whole scene was, indeed, singularly lively, romantic, and exciting. From the front of our line the eye could trace a series of hills, rising step by step one above another, until at last the vision rested on the most distant mountains, whose heads were crowned with perpetual snow. Around us, in every direction, were to be seen military works and engines piled up for our destruction, and barriers of all kinds, that savage ingenuity could invent, had been prepared to impede our progress. Insensible, indeed, must have been that mind which could regard such a scene with indifference or apathy, or contemplate at once the natural beauties and advantages of the spot on which we stood, and their perversion to the mischievous and destructive purposes to which they were doomed shortly to be applied, without casting a thought upwards, -- far above those mountains whose hoary heads towering aloft in native grandeur fill the soul with impressions of awe -- and I must confess, for my own part, that I viewed the scene before me with respectful awe -- but the time was exceedingly brief that I could devote to its contemplation -- for the perpetual stir and bustle of the life of a soldier upon a campaign, and the variety and abruptness of the changes in which it abounds seldom fail to divert him from the more sober purposes of thought Scarcely had I withdrawn my eye from the panoramic view around me, which included the strong-holds of our foe, than a serjeant put into my hands an orderly-book, which directed me to proceed immediately with a small picquet to occupy a little hillock, situate about a mile to the right of our encampment, on which stood a dilapidated mosque, or temple, which had once been surrounded by a strong stone wall. This post had been vacated by the enemy during the morning. I moved off instantly with my party to occupy so desirable an advance. On arriving at the spot I found several fires still burning, and I therefore reconnoitred the localities of the post with great attention. When I had concluded this duty the evening was fast closing in, and the high trees, with which the temple was surrounded, so augmented the natural darkness that I was scarcely able to grope my way through the interior, to examine the different cells and fix on a comfortable resting-place for the night. On entering one of the inner apartments I was surprised to find a light suspended from the ceiling, and some embers on the floor which were still warm. Not much relishing my situation, and bethinking myself that the midnight slaughter of my party might possibly be contemplated, I drew my sword, and was just about to give orders for a careful examination of this part of the building, when, I confess, I was somewhat startled at my toe coming in contact with something soft, which receded from the touch, and seemed to decline all farther acquaintance by uttering a low grunt or groan.

"Who the d -- l is here?" said I, in an authorative tone. "I am the devil himself!" answered a shrill voice in most intelligible Hindostanee, but at the same time sneezing violently, by which I was at once convinced that if this was really a devil at all it must be one of this world, and subject to human infirmities. I therefore gave this self-called devil to understand that no evasions would serve his purpose, and desired him to inform me at once who he was and what he did in that place.

"As to the first of your questions," replied the I meagre and time-worn figure, which, now risen from the ground, stood before me in the dress of" a fakir, or mendicant priest, -- "I have already told you that I am the devil, and I repeat that answer; and as to the second point on which you wish to be satisfied -- what do I do here? -- the question methinks, would come better from me to you."

"It may so appear to you," said I; "yet, as a matter of duty, I must again request you to inform me what you do here, and alone too."

"Alone! exclaimed the old man," -- you know but little about me; I am never alone; -- the devil is perpetually with me; -- he stands by my side at this moment."

"You don't mean me, I trust," said I; for I assure you T do not profess to be anywise allied to him."

"No, no, Sahib, I don't mean you," replied the fakir; "yet he is here at this present time, nor does he ever leave those who early become his willing votaries: indeed, no one would willingly resign what he has legally acquired; and I confess myself to be his lawful property: I am his to all intents and purposes: he purchased me -- but a dear and troublesome bargain he has found it. -- For the last hundred years I have been endeavouring to cheat him, by leading a very rigid and pious life -- but I cannot shake him off, Sahib -- he is still a visiter -- though I trust, should I live twenty years longer, I may be able to pay him my full ransom."

"If it be not too great a liberty," said I, convinced from the rhapsody which I had just heard that my new acquaintance was some mad or deluded enthusiast, yet still curious to know what further he had to say, -- "may I venture to inquire what you mean by a full ransom?"

Upon this the old fakir, looking me full in the face, his ferret's eyes peering with a keen and scrutinizing gaze through the shaggy white eyebrows that overhung them, thus addressed me: --

"I like your features; -- be seated on that rock. -- See -- it bears a long register of the moons I have lived in this temple; -- be seated, Sahib -- be seated."

I turned round, and having cast my eyes over the stone seat offered me, which was indented all over with marks unintelligible to me, I seated myself as I had been requested, and the fakir, placing himself by my side, adjusted his thin grey hairs, and folding his legs under him like a tailor, having stirred up the almost extinguished embers with his long finger-nails, and placed on the fire some pieces of wood from a pile which lay near, he first satisfied himself as to the real cause of my visit to the temple, and then broke out as follows: -- "I am two hundred years old, and have lived here upwards of a hundred years." -- "Then," said I, "you are the oldest man at this moment in the world!" -- "No," he replied, "there is one Gosain in Catmandoo who is two moons older than I am, and five hundred and more in crime; he was captain or soubah of the most desperate gang of robbers that ever infested a country. This old temple, then in its zenith, was one of their look-out posts, and their principal rendezvous; it was surrounded by a wall, now levelled with the ground, which was fifty hands high and fifteen in thickness; and fifty as cold-blooded rascals as ever lived upon blood and rapine generally made this place their head quarters. They were all sworn brothers in crime, and men of athletic powers -- could run with the horse, bound with the deer, had the cunning of foxes, the strength of elephants, the fierceness of the tiger, and the agility of monkeys. Not a wild or a domestic animal was there but they could accurately mimic its cries, and they could imitate to perfection the notes of every bird of the air. So inured were they also to the water, that, if pursued, they could keep under it for an incredible space of time, and, such was the force of habit derived from their practice in that way, that they had become almost amphibious. They were altogether, perhaps, the most licentious and profligate set that ever disgraced human nature. For twenty-two years, I lament to say, I was one of those brothers. The rest have all long since gone to answer for those deeds which, could that rock speak -- see, Sahib, it is even now discoloured with the blood of men, women, and children, -- would" -- 

Here tears seemed ready to start from beneath the long eyelashes of the old man, and he appeared to be so deeply affected that I inquired into the cause of his emotion. "Why," he sobbed in reply, "if I wept the Gunga full, it would be but poor atonement for the sins that marked even the early part of my career." -- "Yet," said I, by way of consolation, "true repentance is the course, and the only one by which we can hope to atone for crime committed in the thoughtlessness of youth or through the baneful influence of depraved associates." -- "True," said the fakir, "but the remorse which I feel must not be designated repentance. Even in your own country of boasted enlightenment those terms are too often confounded and misapplied. The truth is, and I avow it with the most agonizing feelings, that nothing but the iron hand of time, which struck me with age and infirmities, and, by robbing me of my pristine energy and vigour, incapacitated me for ever for those vicious pleasures and pursuits in the enjoyment of which my days of strength had pased away on the wings of delight, could ever, I fear, have either persuaded or compelled me to abandon a course, of life which at once gratified my sensuality, enervated my body, and enslaved my mind. It is easy for me, now that I am labouring under mental and bodily imbecility, to talk of repentance; my words may, indeed, indicate such a feeling, but where is the affection of the heart which should go with them -- perhaps too frequently indulging in the fond recollection of former vicious delights, and sighing after the scenes which ought long since to have been buried in oblivion, or remembered only with disgust."

Anxious to cut the thread of this sermonizing discourse, of which I was beginning to grow weary, I stopped the old gentleman at this point by saying -- with a smile -- "it is a pity, good sired, and having opened the casket, at the old priest's request, the first thing that struck my sight was a human skull, in the cavities that had formerly been the eyes, ears, and mouth, of which were stuck rolls of paper. "That skull," said the fakir, "it almost maddens me to look at." Thus saying he uttered a fearful shriek, rolled his eyes wildly around, and, seizing the skull with one hand he beat it violently with the other, as though overcome by rage which he could not controul; spat at it; upbraided it with all the vile names his imagination could suggest; until at length, perceiving that he appeared to be altogether forgetful of my presence, and hoping to mitigate the paroxysm of fury under which he was acting, I said, with a smile, "pray, good father, show a little mercy to the poor defenceless head." "Idiot that I am!" exclaimed the fakir, turning towards me, and startled at my address; "I was, for the time, unaware of your presence, and thought that I was indulging my frenzy alone and unseen; but I find the devil has been with me again, -- unceasing is the renewal of his attempts to goad me to despair." Thus saying he sunk backwards quite exhausted, and as I thought it wisest to leave him to himself to recover his composure, and heard some of my sentinels challenging I availed myself of the opportunity to retire.

I was surprised to find, on inquiry, that it was already midnight. Having gone my rounds, and seen all right, I withdrew to a rough bed which had been prepared for me; but such an impression had the scene I had witnessed made upon my mind that I could not sleep the whole night. In the morning, as may naturally be supposed, I was early at the temple, but, to my utter astonishment, my friend, the fakir, was nowhere to be found. I searched high and low, but in vain. The old man had either escaped by some secret passage, in the course of the night, or was still concealed in some hiding-place which I could not discover. The box that had contained the skull, however, was still in the place where I had deposited it the evening before. Of this I took possession, and on examination I found in it a roll of manuscripts, and a small penknife which appeared to have been bloody. The writings were in Persian, with which I was little acquainted, but an officer in the company's service, who was a good linguist, was kind enough to translate them for me, and the following is the substance of the narrative, with the omission only of some few scenes and descriptions, of which prudence has dictated the suppression: -- 

"Reader, whosoe'er thou art that tracest the blood-stained lines of this dark narrative, be assured that the circumstances which it describes are as truly recorded here as they are on high!

"I was born at Delhi, the son and only child of Meer Kushain Baig, one of the most opulent merchants in that city. At Delhi also I was educated under the parental roof, with all the care and affection usually lavished on an only son who is the heir to large possessions. Scarcely had my infant eyes viewed the bright light of heaven ere my mother breathed her last, having then only just numbered her thirteenth summer. This melancholy event served to endear me the more to my father, who treated me from my childhood upwards with the most lavish tenderness and affection. Such, indeed, was his fondness for me, that he was blind to all my faults, and thus, what was meant by him as kindness towards me, was by others regarded, and with great justice, as positive cruelty and neglect. The consequences of this mistaken course were that, before I was ten years of age, I had acquired such a sway over my weak and indulgent father, that I was permitted to do exactly what I pleased, to go whithersoever I thought fit, and to associate with such companions as suited my own taste; and, ere I had attained my twelfth year, at which age the passions, in our tropical climate, become ungovernable, if not checked by reason or restraint, I had already formed acquaintance with some of the most vicious of both sexes in the city, and my days and nights were wasted in a course of licentiousness too disgusting to describe. I shall therefore pass over my youthful profligacy in a few words, merely observing that early indulgence in illicit pleasures, and the influence of vicious associations, had entirely unfitted me for any kind of useful or profitable occupation, and all the efforts of my kind father to induce me to settle to his business were in vain. Finding remonstrance useless, he resigned all farther attempts to reform me, and permitted me to run my career unadvised and unrestricted.

"Thus abandoned to my own guidance, sensual pleasures became my sole pursuit, and ere I had attained my eighteenth year the excesses in which I had indulged had equally impaired my constitution and debased my mind. About this period a young and handsome white man, much esteemed for his extraordinary piety, attracted so much attention in Delhi, that he formed the subject of conversation in all parts of the city, and was equally admired, as taste varied, either for the sanctity of his life, the affability and elegance of his manners, or the splendour and magnificence of his establishment. I felt an ardent desire to see this reputed saint, and I confess I entertained a hope, that if I could find an opportunity of introducing myself to his notice, I might, for the first time in my life, derive some consolation from religious discourse. With an emaciated body and a troubled mind, I now, for a time, felt exhausted by dissipation and weary of a life of sin. I came to the resolution, therefore, of seeking the celebrated white man whose piety and virtues I had heard so highly commended; and, on the following morning, taking one of my hawks to amuse me by the way, I strolled towards his palace, (for such it might most properly be called) -- which was situate in the gardens of the Laul Bogg, celebrated throughout all India for their romantic beauty. It was as lovely a morning as ever smiled o'er the face of. nature, and the pure and healthful breezes refreshed my heated frame and revived my spirits, while the fragrance which they wafted towards me from the aromatic groves around, was highly gratifying to the senses, and rendered my early walk at once agreeable and invigorating. My hawk also was in good training, and caught two minors before I arrived at my destination.

"On approaching within sight of the holy man's domain I found that his gardens, which exhaled all the perfumes of Arabia, were inclosed by a very high brick wall, and that the only access to the mansion was through a prodigious folding gate, securely fastened on the inside, and of course quite impenetrable to me by any other means than direct application for admittance. In one of the folds of this gate, however, was a small wicket, through which visiters usually entered, directly opposite to which I took my station, with the intention of noticing, unobserved, whatever might be passing, until a favourable opportunity should present itself of obtaining an interview with the priest. Here I remained for upwards of an hour without seeing a single soul, until at length, quite tired of watching, I was debating within myself whether I should apply to the bell for admittance or at once retire for the day, and had just determined in favour of the latter course, when, on the margin of an extensive mango toop that stood near, I caught a glimpse of a female who seemed anxiously watching some person from behind one of the trees. Curiosity and a spirit of adventure prompted me to guide my steps in the direction in which this fair vision presented itself to my view, and I advanced towards the spot so cautiously that I stood in the lady's presence before she had the least suspicion of my approach.

"'Fair maiden,' said I, addressing her, 'be not alarmed at the presence of a stranger, whose worst intentions in presuming to obtrude himself on your privacy are to ascertain whether, as he would fain hope, he can render you any assistance.'

"'Sahib,' answered the lady -- whose anxiety and confusion almost deprived her of utterance -- 'kind stranger,' she faltered out,'whosoe'er thou art that thus addressest me, I must beseech you, in my present situation, either to leave this spot instantly, or at least that you will permit me to depart without farther observation.'

"'These words were uttered with tremulous emotion, but with a sweetness of tone compared with which the notes of the bul-bul were harsh and discordant. I was commanded to go, but I felt rivetted to the spot, as by the power of fascination, and finding that the fair stranger seemed to pause in expectation of my immediate acquiescence in the wish which she had expressed to be left alone, almost unconscious of what I did I clasped one of her hands in mine, and ventured to breathe a hope that we might not part so suddenly.'

"'For heaven's sake!' exclaimed the lovely girl, her veil falling on her shoulders in her faint struggle to disengage herself from my grasp, and disclosing to my view a face of the most perfect beauty,'permit me to go my way without farther interruption. I await an opportunity of speaking to good father Meede, on subjects connected with my soul's peace, and it were not seemly that I should be seen with a companion.'

"'Neither can it be deemed prudent,' added I, 'that you should remain in this solitary spot alone and unprotected -- I am myself proceeding in the same direction, and you surely cannot object to my accompanying you as far as the gate.'

"Thus saying, I released the soft hand which I had until then held fast, and the lady, finding that it was in vain to resist my importunities, assented to my proposal, and re-adjusting her richly-wrought chudah with an air in which nothing like displeasure appeared, she intimated that she was ready, and we proceeded together, at a slow pace, towards the gate of the christian priest's habitation. On the road, knowing that the minutes were numbered which I was now destined to pass in the society of my fair companion, I endeavoured to engage her in a conversation concerning the pious christain she was about to visit, in the hope of extracting from her some particulars respecting that far-famed personage with which I was as yet unacquainted, as also of forming some notion of her object in seeking a private interview with 'the holy man.' In the brief opportunity afforded me, however, I could obtain no satisfactory intelligence on either point. 'The much-talked-of priest, was,' as she believed, 'justly esteemed one of the best and wisest of men, and he certainly was one of the handsomest she had ever seen. His age might be about five-and-twenty, though he was thought by some to be much older. He had made many converts to his religion -- but she would not have it supposed that she was one of the number, -- and she repelled with indignation the suggestion that his beauty had captivated her heart, though she could not deny that his manners and accomplishments were but too well calculated to ensnare a maiden's affections.'

"Having seen my lovely companion as far as the gate of which I have before spoken, I retired at her earnest entreaty, but not before I had drawn from her something like a promise that, if I thought fit to remain with patience near the toop where we had first met, she might possibly see me again in the course of an hour or two. Delighted beyond measure with the unsuspecting frankness with which my request appeared to be accorded, and in anxious anticipation of the promised happiness of a second meeting, I retired to the spot appointed to await her return; but the sun went down upon my watching -- she came not again -- and I at length turned my steps homeward, where I arrived dispirited and fatigued. The lovely unknown had in reality made an impression on my heart, and I felt in. describable mortification at the disappointment which she had caused me, and retired to bed, after a slight refreshment, in a state of mind in which I felt disposed to quarrel with all the world. I passed a restless night, the inquietude I felt depriving me of the enjoyment of sleep. At morning's dawn, therefore, I dressed myself, and determined on again repairing towards the priest's residence. Thus resolved I started at once, and having partaken of breakfast at a cottager's on the road, and provided my pockets with some sweetmeats, in order to guard against the inanition from which I had suffered on the preceding day, I reached the toop of trees which faced the gate of the good christian's gardens at an early hour. Here I sat down beneath the shade of a large cotton-tree, with the intention of carefully observing whoever might pass in or out of the holy man's gate, of which I commanded a full view; but, as I had arrived at a very unseasonable hour, nothing occurred for a considerable period that was calculated to attract my attention, and my mental faculties being thus wholly unexcited, and my frame wearied by unusual exercise and want of rest, I sunk insensibly into a sound sleep, which, by the influence of the mild breezes that fanned me in my slumbers, was prolonged until the sun bad passed its meridian. I then awoke -- renovated and refreshed -- and I resolved that I would devote the remainder of the day, at least, to the object which I had in view in revisiting the place. In the course of the afternoon I observed many persons apply for admittance at the portal which I was watching, but they were all unknown to me, and for the most part men, whose appearance, as it seemed to me, was any thing but prepossessing. Of these some passed out again, and others did not re-appear. Among the few females who were allowed ingress there was not one whose figure bore the slightest resemblance to that of the charming girl whose image was imprinted on my heart; -- and of those who had been admitted all seemed to be departing one by one, and as evening was now fast approaching I had myself almost determined on relinquishing my post in despair, when on a sudden I was arrested by the sound of vocal and instrumental music issuing from the house of the pious christian. I now repented that I had lingered so long without applying for admission to the good man's presence; but as it seemed unreasonable that I should venture to intrude myself at the very moment my caprice dictated, I still hesitated to make such an application. Meantime the concert from within proceeded -- the music and singing were of the most exquisite description. Attracted by the harmony I emerged from my retreat and advanced towards the gate, where I could hear the music to greater advantage. The evening was delightfully cool -- the moon had now risen and shed her mild lustre o'er the scene around me, -- and all nature seemed hushed into intense silence, as though listening, like me, to catch the sweet notes which now pealed in unison with loud and sonorous swell, and anon seemed to melt in soft cadence on the wings of the breeze. I had drawn quite close to the gate, and was listening anxiously to catch the last words of a sweet but plaintive song from a female voice, when, on a sudden, the wicket opened and the priest himself issued forth, leading by the hand my fair enchantress of the day before!

"All attempts at concealment or retreat were now vain; I therefore stood prepared to answer such inquiries as I knew must inevitably follow. 'Young gentleman,' said the priest, addressing me instantly, 'permit me to inquire into the nature of your business at the portal, and at this unusual hour?'

"'To say truth, holy father,' replied I, with a respectful obeisance; -- 'for I presume, from your question, -that I stand in the presence of the master of yonder mansion -- the immediate cause of my loitering near this gate was the fascination of the music which has just ceased; but it was another and a better reason that first attracted me hither. -- I have heard much of the pious christian residing on this estate, and I am desirous of seeking a private interview with him when convenience shall serve.'

"'Fairly and candidly answered,' said the holy man with a smile -- 'and the opportunity which you seek shall be speedily afforded you. Meantime you probably will not object to perform a slight service for me. This young maiden is my favourite pupil and convert -- her path homeward lies through the toop which faces us, and it was my intention to have accompanied her myself. Circumstances, however, induce me to request that you will undertake this kind office for me. -- I repeat that you can see me again, on another occasion.' -- 

"During all this time the priest held the hand of his fair convert fast locked in his own, and occasionally pressed it with a fervour which struck me as but ill suited to his sacred character, though apparently any thing but displeasing to the lady. No sooner, however, had I signified my willingness to escort his young friend towards her home, than he placed her hand in mine, and consigned her unhesitatingly to my care; and then bestowing on us both a parting benediction, he retired within his walls, while I proceeded with my lovely charge in the direction of the toop. We pursued our way in silence until we entered the grove in which we had first met, when, assured that we were now beyond the fear of listeners, I pressed the soft hand of the partner of my walk to my lips, and, imprinting on it a burning kiss, I exclaimed -- 'Sweet girl, it is indeed a pleasure to meet you thus again; -- and though I am indebted to a stranger, and, apparently a rival too, for the happiness which I now enjoy -- yet as it affords me the opportunity of declaring the sentiments which I feel towards the loveliest of the sex' -- 

"'You of course would avail yourself of it, if I were disposed to encourage such a communication: -- but, the charge which you have undertaken is to escort me in safety through this toop,' said my fair companion with a smile, 'and, as I doubt not that you will perform that duty with fidelity, you must excuse me for interrupting your intended speech, by saying that it is not required of you to flatter me on the road.'

"'And yet,' replied I, 'it can scarcely be expected that I should preserve entire silence when so many circumstances conspire to force me to speak: -- first the disappointment to which I was subjected yesterday; -- then the dictates of my heart which will not be restrained; -- the seeming peculiarity of your intercourse with the holy christian' -- .

"'Enough! enough!' said the lady, 'spare me all explanations now; yet, as regards the pious priest, whose rivalry you have affected to apprehend, he assured that as he is one of the most charming so also he is one of the best of men, and I should be the happiest of the happy if it were my fate to be allowed to attend on him as his slave.'

"'Indeed!' exclaimed I, in a tone which indicated that I felt piqued at her reply, 'so partial to him as that! But what say your parents to such an attachment?'

"'The attachment is not of the nature you suppose,' said the maiden firmly, but still preserving a good-humoured smile, -- 'and, as to the approbation of parents, my father only is living, and he is too indulgent and, indeed, too much absorbed in his banking business, to watch my motions with suspicion.'

"'Your father a banker!' interrupted I, 'and at Delhi too?' -- 'Even so,' said the lady, 'and resides within a few doors of that rich merchant, Meer Kushain Baig, whose son, Meer Fazel, is esteemed so handsome.'

"'Meer Kushain Baig! Meer Fazel!' repeated I, 'the names are certainly familiar to me: have you any knowledge of the son of the rich merchant -- that Meer Fazel of whom you speak?'

"'In truth I know nothing of him except from report, which speaks of him as a libertine and a spendthrift,' said the lady.

"'And what think you,' eagerly inquired I, 'what think you, fair daughter of Bully Chung, that report says of you?'

"My fair companion started at hearing the name of her father mentioned, and, throwing aside the chudah which had until now concealed her lovely face, she anxiously entreated me to inform her, without disguise, whatever the open-mouthed fiend, called scandal, might have circulated to her prejudice.

"'Oh,' replied I, 'it is currently stated and believed that you are the peculiar favourite of the christian priest -- that you are a most devoted proselyte to his doctrines -- and that -- * * * *

"'And what?' anxiously asked she, 'for I must know all.'

"'Pardon me, lovely daughter of Bully Chung,' said I, 'you see before you one of whom report hath not spoken more kindly than of yourself -- behold in my person that Meer Fazel whom you have characterized as a libertine and a spendthrift.'

"'Meer Fazel!' exclaimed she, in apparent astonishment, and stopping, as though a sudden thought had flashed across her mind -- 'then it is imperative that I know more of thy designs ere we part.'

"Thus saying she applied a small whistle to her mouth, and I was surrounded in an instant by about twenty armed men, who, without any resistance on my part -- which would have been utterly vain -- at a signal from their leader, blindfolded and gagged me, and then, lifting me from the ground, bore me on their shoulders for a considerable distance. I was at length once more placed on terra firma, and, the bandage being removed from my eyes, I found myself in a long narrow room, profusely decorated with martial implements, at the end of which, on a sort of raised throne, sat a venerable looking man, whose long white hair reached almost to his waist. He had a book open before him, and appeared in deep meditation -- sometimes casting his penetrating eyes upwards, and clasping his hands together as though in a religious fervour, and frequently marking his forehead with paint, sounding the khonk, and tinkling a small bell which stood near him, but never once turning over a single leaf of his book. Behind him stood six fierce-looking armed slaves arrayed in chain armour, and several equally ill-looking fellows were to be seen peeping, from time to time, from little doors in different parts of the wall. The old judge -- for such he seemed to be -- awaking at length from his reverie, addressed himself suddenly to me in the following words: -- 

"'Meer Fazel, son of Meer Kushain Baig, answer me: -- what brought you into the toop of the Laul Bogg? A falsehood is your death-warrant.'

"The awful threat contained in the last words of this address put truth into my mouth, and I answered unhesitatingly -- 'curiosity and want of occupation.'

"'Good,' said the old man, 'but what excited your curiosity so far as to induce you to be lurking about in the vicinity of this holy house?'

"'I had heard,' replied I, 'of a pious christian who resided here in Oriental splendour, and that many had become converts to his new principles of worship.'

"'Well,' said the old man, 'and what opinion do you now hold concerning the pious man of whom you speak? be candid and fear not.'

"'Why,' replied I, 'I have, scarcely spoken to the individual to whom you refer, but, during the brief interview which I had with him' -- 

"'What did you think?' asked the hoary-headed judge with eagerness; 'answer me fearlessly and without reserve.'

"'I will, if it cost me my life: -- my impression was unfavourable,' said I with firmness; -- 'I did not think him a man of real piety: as to my reasons for coming to this conclusion nothing shall compel me to declare them.'

"While I thus spoke the venerable judge seemed labouring under intense anxiety; his lips turned pale; he grasped the koran with both his hands, and his whole frame was evidently affected by violent agitation. The fiends who stood behind him laid their hands on the hilts of their swords, and ere I had concluded my speech were in the act of rushing upon me, when their master, interposing himself between them and me, thundered forth in a voice which belied his age -- 

'"Golaam! under whose orders do you presume to act thus? Touch not the bold youth with your weapons of death. I have yet other questions to ask him. Is not your father,' continued he, in a calmer voice, 'that Meer Kushain Baig, whose immense wealth is the theme of every tongue?'

"'The same,' said I; 'he is undoubtedly a man of riches.'

"'Tell me instantly, then, where his principal treasures are deposited,' said the priest, for the mask, which at this moment accidentally fell from his face, betrayed to my astonished sight the holy christian recluse.

"'I do not know,' replied I, 'and if I did I should not reveal it.'

"'Then off with him,' exclaimed the priest, in a paroxysm of rage, 'away with him, slaves, until prudence suggest compliance with my demand.'

"I was surrounded in an instant, and, being deposited in a kind of cradle or basket, was let down, through a trap door, into a room beneath that in which I had been examined, and there left alone to my meditations. On looking round I found at one end of the room a couch, a table, on which stood pen, ink, and paper, two chairs in the centre, and a light suspended from the ceiling. For three days I was confined in this apartment without seeing a living soul, -- food being conveyed to me at regular hours through an aperture in one of the walls; but I felt little inclination to eat, though the fare provided for me was both abundant and dainty. On the fourth day I was reflecting seriously on the hopelessness of my condition, and revolving in my mind the circumstances which had led to my imprisonment, more especially that part of the adventure in which the fair stranger was concerned, when, to my astonishment, a concealed door in a recess of the apartment suddenly flew open, and the lovely unknown stood before me, arrayed in the costume of a priestess.

'"Meer Fazel,' said she, sighing deeply, and either weeping or affecting to weep, 'I feel much for you: it was essential that, for my own safety, I should prevent you from entering Delhi on the night when I last saw you; but your incarceration in this dungeon is not, believe me, the result of any suggestion of mine.'

"'I can scarcely think it possible, fair maiden,' said I, leading her to the chair that was unoccupied, 'that I can have done any thing to excite your displeasure, much less your vengeance; but the circumstances under which I have been dragged hither, and confined in a solitary cell, are sufficiently suspicious' -- 

"'To require explanation, which it is hut just I should afford you,' said the lady: 'learn then, in the first place, that the individual who performed the part of inquisitor in your examination, and who is better known by the title of the pious christian, is in reality a native of Persia, though his father was a Frenchman and his mother a Mogulanee. As to his christian profession he has no fixed principles of religion to which he adheres, for he can play the part of a Mussulman, a Bhuddist, or a Brahmin, as well as that of a christian priest, should occasion require.'

"'This then,' said I, 'is one of the best of men! this is the pious dervise whom it pleased you, a few days since, to extol so highly!'

"'Reproach me not,' said the bewitching fair one, while tears streamed from her eyes, 'for deceptions which I am constrained to practise. My fate is inseparably linked with that of the pretended priest, under circumstances which it is impossible for me to explain. You were an utter stranger to me -- your intentions, to say the least, doubtful -- and your questions pregnant with curiosity which, if satisfied, might have endangered my reputation. As, however, I have been the innocent cause of your forcible detention here, permit me now to atone for my former delusions by explaining to you the truth.'

"'Charming girl,' said I, infatuated by her beauty and regardless whether or not she had beguiled me into my present situation, 'I can never suspect you of treachery: -- proceed -- I am most anxious to know the real character of this Persian adventurer.'

"'His real character then,' said the maiden, 'is that of captain of banditti, and his assumed one merely a cloak under which he may practise on the world with greater security. He has been a bandit from his boyhood upwards, and he has now acquired considerable possessions, and acts as soubah to a very numerous and well organized gang. It was not without a design that you were asked by him to accompany me through the toop, on the evening when you first saw him. I have since learnt that you had been seen asleep beneath a tree near his residence, by one of his scouts who was no stranger to your name and person, and who was well rewarded for the report he made of your situation and your father's riches. This will account to you for many points in your examination that would otherwise appear extraordinary.'

"'Then,' said I, alarmed, but trying to force a smile, 'I am indeed in safe keeping in this lonely apartment!'

"'You are, indeed,' said the lady, in a mournful tone, 'be assured your life is at stake if you do not reveal the repository of your father's treasures. At the same time every exertion is making to discover intelligence of your fate, and various are the reports made concerning you. Your father has offered a lack of rupees to any one who shall bring him a true account of your situation; horsemen have started in all directions in search of you, boats have been despatched up and down the river, and trusty men are on the look out for you day and night. All their exertions, however, must infallibly prove fruitless, for they are continually misled by the false reports circulated by the inmates of this castle, and, as to escape, it is impossible.'

"'Impossible!' exclaimed I, 'can I not pass out by the same door at which you obtained access hither?'

'"If you could,' said she, with a tenderness which she had not hitherto manifested, 'be assured my assistance should not be wanting; but, believe me, escape is utterly impracticable.'

"'Then,' said I, in a resolute tone, 'come death when and how it may, I betray not my father!'

"'Nay,' remonstrated my fair visitant, 'be not too rash. The captain has been favourably impressed by your bold answers to his questions, and has declared to his followers that he should be delighted if he had such a companion as yourself to participate with him in his toils and pleasures.'

"'Pleasures!' responded I, 'toils and anxieties I can readily conceive he has abundance of, but as to pleasures' -- 

"'Think not he is without what are generally esteemed pleasures, however you may contemn them,' said my seducer, 'the richest viands and choicest fruits load his tables, he drinks daily of the finest wines, music and dancing unite their charms to entertain him, and the greatest beauties of the land grace his zennanah.'

"Scarcely had these poisoned words passed the lips of my enslaver, than my impure and vicious thoughts caused me to waver in the resolution which I had just before expressed, and I felt that I could scarcely refuse to sacrifice my father's property to participate in the voluptuous gratifications presented to my mind, and especially since she who spoke thus lightly of illicit pleasures would consent to share them. The artful fair availed herself instantly of my evident indecision, and, seizing my hand, she said, -- 'I see that you accept the offer -- need I say how happy I shall be to have such a companion in this place?'

"'Bewitching girl!' said I, throwing my arms round her neck, and kissing her blooming cheek, 'you have allured me to the brink of a precipice, and I have not firmness to avoid plunging into the abyss before me. You have prevailed -- your fascinations have extinguished the remaining embers of affection which still glowed for my father -- I will tell all!'

"On hearing this the lovely girl sunk in my arms in a momentary swoon, but recovering herself immediately, she said,'Meer Fazel! you have saved your own life and mine too; for, had you not consented to the proposition which I have been compelled to bear to you, we should both have been sacrificed.'

"'If, to save your life, then,' said I, with rapture, 'I can contribute, by sacrificing- my father's riches at the shrine of beauty, let me be conducted at once where I may disclose all that is required of me, if thy love be plighted as the price of the confession.'

"'It is promised thee,' said the enchantress, 'so far as I can promise any thing;' and I again strained her fondly to my bosom, with but faint resistance on her part. -- 'Give notice, then, of my assent,' said I, impatient to be released from my gloomy prison. No sooner had I said these words than my conductress struck a kind of wooden casement, that immediately opened into a long corridor, through which she desired me to follow her. I at once complied, and we proceeded along the passage until we reached a large folding door, which, at our approach, was thrown open, as by some preconcerted signal, and displayed to my view a magnificent apartment, at the extremity of which, on a luxurious couch, reclined the false priest, smoking his hookah, while two lovely girls, standing one on each side of him, fanned him with chowries of peacocks' feathers. About twenty other beautiful women, arrayed in all the splendour of the East, were variously engaged in different parts of the room -- some occupied at a favourite Oriental game called putcheesi -- others partaking of a costly banquet which was spread at a side-table -- and the rest throwing themselves into voluptuous attitudes, as they glided to and fro, to the soft notes of the Indian guitar. No sooner had I entered the room than all eyes were turned towards me, and the master of the revels himself, making a signal that the music and dancing should be suspended, arose, and, advancing to meet me, with all the familiarity of an old acquaintance, led my fair guide by one hand and me by the other, and seated us both by his side. 'Son of Meer Kushain,' said he, addressing himself to me, 'you have wisely resolved. I have now to claim the performance of your promise.'

"'I am already in possession of the requisite information,' said the lady; 'Meer Fazel has indicated to me the spot in which his father's treasures are deposited.'

"'Then all is well,' said the bandit-priest, and he whispered a few words to the lady, who instantly retired; then turning to me, he begged me to partake of some refreshment, and, expressing a hope that I should be amused by the festivities in which the evening was intended to be spent, he ordered the dance to be resumed. In a few minutes my fair enslaver re-entered the apartment, and seated herself again by my side, and the pseudo-priest, pleading urgent business, withdrew, suddenly, at a summons from one of bis attendants, leaving me to urge my suit with the lady, with all the fervour which my love suggested and the opportunity afforded. In this delightful occupation I was still ardently engaged, when the christain rushed into the room, and, giving the ladies to understand that their presence was no longer required, stalked up to me, and, with a scowling aspect, said, 'treacherous boy! thou would-be libertine, if thy courage did not prevent thee, thinkest thou that thy slight cunning can deceive Meer Ali? or that his brave and numerous followers are to be satisfied with the paltry booty which your information has acquired, while the real secret remains still in thy custody? Ill advised youth, be firm ere it be too late.'

"'Firm I will be,' replied I, 'and though I stand here unarmed, and in the power of one who knows no remorse, his threats shall not induce me to reveal ought that may affect my father's safety.'

"'Your father's safety!' said the ruffian, with a malicious grin, at the same time striking the casement with his sword, 'behold in whose custody he is already!'

"At the instant part of the casement flew open, and imagine my consternation and horror when, through a window, I beheld the mangled body of my father borne between two men. He did not appear to be dead, but his white muslin dress was drenched with blood. 'Villain!' I exclaimed, making a powerless blow at the bandit, -- and, overcome by the terrific sight which I had just witnessed, I sunk senseless on the floor. * * * * * *

"Fever and delirium ensued, but whither I was borne, or how long I remained in a state of insensibility, I was utterly unconscious. With returning reason, the thought of my father's awful situation instantly recurred to me. I found myself lying on a green damask bed, in a magnificent chamber, with two females attending upon me, who, immediately on my making a sign to them that I wished to rise, for my parched tongue cleaved to the roof of my mouth, so that I could not utter a word, propped me up with pillows, and poured something into my mouth like sherbet or lemonade, which greatly refreshed me, and my speech returning, the first question which I asked was concerning the fate of my poor father. My attendants were unable to satisfy me, but one of them quitted the room, and in a few minutes the bandit entered, accompanied by the fair Mootee, -- he arrayed in the dress of a common mendicant priest, and she in that of a priestess. The soubah drew a moorah, or stool, near my bed, and thus addressed me: 'Meer Fazel! to see you again yourself is a delight I cannot describe; you have been long ill -- seriously ill.'

"'What has become of my father?' said I, 'my illness matters little.'

"'Alas! poor old man, he died the third day's sail from Delhi, of grief occasioned by your illness. No personal harm was intended him by us: his treasures were all we aimed at, and those he resigned himself, with the utmost cheerfulness, to be admitted to your presence. On his deathbed he charged us with his blessing to you, and strictly enjoined that every care should be taken of you. His body was burnt by his own desire, and his ashes thrown into the holy Gunga.' The robber, observing that I sunk backwards on the bed, deeply afflicted at this intelligence, continued as follows: -- 'come, Meer Fazel, it is vain to indulge in useless regrets; be assured that you are neither fatherless nor homeless, unless it be your pleasure to leave me -- your companion and friend. If you can bury all recollection of the past in the lucid anticipation of the future, you may yet be one of the happiest of men Circumstances have obliged us to quit Delhi, but we are now in the fertile valley of Nepaul, far removed from observation and danger. We have treasures inexhaustible. Cast, then, what has gone by into the dark pit of oblivion, and you will find that you can scarcely express a wish but to be gratified. In proof of which,' continued he, pointing to the fair enchantress, 'consent, and she is yours.' -- Wretch that I was! I did consent, and thenceforth my lovely Mootee became my nurse, and under her care I speedily recovered my health and spirits.

"Month after month I continued to be treated by the bandit-chief like a brother, and became more and more attached to my lovely partner, without being required to take an active part in their pursuits. One night, however, the captain requested me to supervise the operations of a party which he had detached to intercept the cavalcade of a rich merchant, who, according to intelligence which he had received, was on his way from Patna to Catmandoo, with shawls and diamonds for the Rajah. Our hiding-place was on the craggy declivity of the pass of Cheriaghautee (or the bird passage.) We sent out some trusty scouts to give notice of the approach of the cavalcade, but they soon returned to us, with the report that the party were afraid to attempt the pass in the night. -- Then let us on to the attack where they are,' said one of the band who seemed to have influence over the rest, and on they went, placing me between two of their leaders. At the bottom of the ghaut we could see their tents and camels, with several sentinels keeping guard over their property; on observing which, our leader said: -- 'they seem prepared for us: we had better give it up.' Fired by such cowardice, I exclaimed: -- 'give it up, and sully my character with dishonour! no, my friends; I will, myself, lead you to the attack.' No sooner had I spoken than the whole party drew their swords, and simultaneously exclaimed: -- 'noble son of Meer Kushain Baig, lead on!' Thus saying, we rushed precipitately on the unsuspecting sentinels, and the party, after a brief but violent struggle, being overpowered, the booty which we gained was immense.

"This act of bravery, attended with such consummate success, endeared me much to the men, and the captain himself, on our arrival at the post, embraced me tenderly, and congratulated me, with great fervour and apparent sincerity, on my heroism and good fortune. It soon became evident to me, however, that he was jealous of my reputation in the troop; and I was confirmed in this opinion by a private communication made to me by one of the men, that some foul play towards me was in agitation. Thus cautioned, I determined on sleeping alone for a few nights, in consequence of some undefinable suspicions arising out of the equivocal character of my fair, but too artful, partner. Acting on this resolution I had, one night, just lain down with my clothes on and my sabre at my side, when my Mootee applied, in a beseeching tone, for admittance to my chamber. As I could not discover my suspicions I immediately admitted her. She entered with a small dagger in her hand, and holding up her finger to enjoin silence, approached me on tiptoe, and at once removed my doubts as to her fidelity, by saying: -- 'draw your sabre, my beloved, and keep it in your hand: that fiend, jealous of your bravery and the attachment which his followers manifest for you, has determined on your destruction this night: be silent and resolute, all may yet be well; and, come what may, I will at least die by your side!'

"'I embraced my lovely mistress, and, rising from my bed, determined on selling my life dearly, I suggested that we should both conceal ourselves on different sides of the apartment, and await the result. Five minutes had not elapsed ere the inner door slowly opened, and a ruffian, who was always in the confidence of his master, entered with a stealthy pace, followed by the soubah himself. They groped their way to opposite sides of the bed on tiptoe, and the assassin, drawing his dagger, was just in the act of plunging it into the unoccupied bed, when my sword laid the wretch at my feet in the agonies of death.

"The false priest, finding himself detected, and escape impossible, immediately drew his sword. 'Hash and presumptuous youth,' said he, 'what madness has possessed thee thus to act to one who; intending thee no harm, acted merely by my orders?'

"'Murderous villain!' exclaimed I,'no subterfuge will avail thee now: can I not believe the evidence of my own senses? Prepare instantly for defence, or I pin thee to the wall, coward as thou art, as a spectacle at which thy whole troop shall point the finger of scorn!'

"'Coward!' said the bandit, 'hath Meer Ali lived to be bearded by a drivelling boy? Thy death be on thy own head!'

"Thus saying, the soldier-priest rushed on me with an impetuosity which was resistless -- my sword flew from my grasp -- I was defenceless and in his power -- when my Mootee, having advanced unobserved from her hiding-place, in an instant struck her dagger, with deadly precision, to his heart. The bandit fell, and, uttering a faint groan, instantly expired.

"Attracted by the clash of swords, the whole band were speedily in the room, and the circumstances having been explained to them, the death of the chieftain was pronounced to be an act of justice, and I was unanimously elected to fill his place.

* * * * * *

Here the MS., which contained but a few pages more, was so defaced by damps as to be utterly illegible.

THE BHATTEE ROBBER.

The country of the Bhattees is situated in the north-eastern quarter of the province of Ajmeer, in the East Indies. Until the progress of events brought the British arms within the limits of their country, this class of the natives of Hind08tan was scarcely known even by name. The Bhattees were originally shepherds. Of late years they have abandoned that honest occupation, as servile and unworthy of their talents, and have adopted a predatory system of life, which is considered by them more noble than tending sheep. They do not, like the Pindarees, exercise their, sportive ingenuity well mounted and equipped, but through the performance of the most extraordinary feats of pedestrianism.

To guard against these pilfering wanderers, the British authorities in their vicinity were compelled to keep incessant watch upon the movements of the whole tribe; but, in spite of every possible precaution and vigilance, scarcely a day passed at Loodeanna or Huranna, in which some article, either of necessity or of virtu, did not disappear, never again to be seen or heard of. In this manner, plate and jewellery of every description, clothes, guns, pistols, and even horses, were continually missing; but so adroitly were the exploits of these picaroons conceived and performed, that suspicion never lighted on the appropriator of the lost articles, until he and his booty were far beyond the reach of justice.

Previously to entering on the particulars of the life of one of the ancients of the fraternity, thus briefly introduced to the reader, it may not be uninteresting, nor perhaps wholly unedifying to novices in the art of appropriation, to trace the steps by which the juniors among the Bhattees are initiated in the rudiments of their calling, and gradually qualified to participate with their veteran brethren in the pursuit and profit of their vagabond vagaries and roguish exploits.

When the young Bhattee is about three or four years of age, his education, or training, is commenced, by his being compelled to walk and run a given distance daily. As he advances in years, the exercise required of him is increased in proportion, until he may at last be said to have gone through a regular course of gymnastics, in the etymological sense of that word, -- for all his exercises are performed in a state of nudity. The object and natural effect of this kind of schooling, is to increase the physical powers of the body in all situations, and to enable the individual to endure, with comparative ease, the greatest fatigue or labour. Among other essential accomplishments in which the young Bhattee is expected to perfect himself by unremitting practice, the following may be mentioned as absolutely indispensable. He must acquire the art of bleating like a sheep -- barking like a dog -- crowing like a cock -- braying like the ass -- and in like manner of imitating all kinds of animals. He must also be able to throw himself, as occasion may require, into every kind of attitude, -- to crawl along, or lie as flat as possible on the ground, -- to run like a goat, or dog, -- to stand on his head with his legs extended widely, so as to appear in the dusk like the stump of a tree, &c. &c. With reference to the last-mentioned acquirement, I recollect to have heard a sentinel of the 4th Bengal cavalry tell his officer, that when he was on duty, on a certain occasion, he heard something move about the head-ropes of his horses, On looking round, he saw what he supposed to be a large dog, which ran between his legs and nearly upset him. The sentinel, however, had heard of the ability with which many of the natives could imitate different animals, and was not satisfied with this explanation of the noise that had first excited his attention. He still suspected that some roguery was on foot, and the better to detect it, he placed himself behind what appeared to be the stump of a tree, at a short distance from the spot on which he had been previously standing. On this supposed stump he hung his helmet, and, bent on the most attentive scrutiny, he placed his head between the two limbs of the stump, so as, unperceived, to command a direct view of the quarter from which the noise had originally proceeded. This, however, was too much for the thief, (for such, in reality, was this pseudo tree-stump,) who, unable to restrain his laughter, and finding his situation somewhat critical, suddenly executed a somerset, upset the astonished soldier, and made clear off with his helmet!

To resume. When the child is about six years of age, he is put to swimming and diving. When about eight he is bound apprentice to a proficient of the tribe, who, as all the pupil's gains are considered the sole and lawful property of his instructor, spares no pains to make him an adept in his vocation. Thus tutored, the pupil soon becomes expert in the ancient and honourable mystery of thieving. At twelve years of age he is considered "out of his time;" but previously to his being allowed to "begin business for himself" the young aspirant is subjected to a most rigid examination, lest, from want of the requisite skill or cunning, his practice should entail disgrace on the body corporate. First, he is despatched as a scout, with an old practitioner, whose task it is to put his companion's courage and cunning to the test on every possible occasion, but principally to assure himself that he is not deficient in prowess as a pedestrian. Of this the youngster is required to afford proof, by running and walking an incredible distance daily, until at length, when he can accomplish thirty or forty miles without stopping, carrying for the whole distance a considerable load, he is admitted as a competent member of the fraternity of Bhattee robbers, and commences his pillaging peregrinations on his own account.

The following narrative of the life of one of these worthies was related to me by the man himself, in the year 1820, at Cawnpore, in the Bengal presidency. The name of the fellow was Dooklah. He was a convict on the roads for life, and had recently come down from the prison of the British cantonment of Loodeanna.

"My ancestors were of undoubted rank and consequence. The father of my father, for instance, held the distinguished appointment of leader of one of the most extensive and best organized bands of itinerant robbers that ever subsisted by plunder. My mother, too, was the daughter of a noble fellow, who commanded no less than a hundred vagrant followers, the terror of the country for as many miles round. Of the whole of these my tutor was his especial favourite. There was not a spot upon the head of this my venerable instructor, when he wore the grey hairs of eighty, on which you could place a rupee without its touching a brace of sabre-scars. In short, he had received more cuts than there are days in the year, and prided himself highly on these numerous marks of gallantry and honourable achievement. He had been for nearly seventy years faithful to the society to which he belonged, and in the course of that period had brought many a man to an unexpected end. His boasted trophy was a strange one -- the tips of the noses of those who had fallen beneath his arm; these he carefully preserved, and he would occasionally exhibit them as proofs of his valour. In skill and agility he was without equal in the troop; he was as active as the monkey, as cunning as the fox, and as cold-blooded as the gaunt wolf. Under the tuition of this accomplished master, (who was well known at Loodeanna by the name of Bollicadassas, from his frequent robberies in that neighbourhood,) I had every reason to hope, by common application, to become a distinguished practitioner in the same line!"

"True," said I, interrupting my informant, "and yet it would appear, from the iron fetters which you now wear, that you did not profit much by your superior education."

"Why, as to that," replied he, "if you have an hour to spare, I will tell you how it happened," -- and he continued as follows:

"Having acquired the rudiments of my profession, under my experienced teacher, I was at length pronounced by him fully competent to undertake a job at my own risk, and for my own benefit. As this, my first commission, was rather adroitly performed, the particulars of the affair may perhaps serve to amuse you. We had received information that a young British officer, who had recently arrived from England, was on his way to join the force then lying at Loodeanna. The plucking of this bird was entrusted entirely to my management, 'and I therefore started to meet him. At about thirty miles from the station of Loodeanna, I found him snugly encamped in a small and solitary toop on the margin of a village. When I spied him he was puffing away at a most beautiful hookah, with a silver mouth-piece and surpoose. 'Lah kho dah,' thought I to myself, 'it shall not be long before that fine smoking apparatus changes owners, If no better luck await me.' Thus laudably resolved, I hovered about the tent, and reconnoitred its localities, when the smooth-faced boy observing me, exclaimed, 'holloa! you black rascal! what the d -- l do you do here? come this way.' -- 'Yes, massa,' I answered; at the same time advancing towards him. 'Then you understand English do you?' said he. 'Oh, yes,' replied I, 'as well as you do.' 'I dare say you do,' said the young wiseacre, with a knowing air, -- (you must doubtless have observed, Sahib, that your raw travellers, and especially the beardless youngsters who come to India as cadets, always think themselves gifted with extraordinary penetration and wit, which confer on them, as they suppose, the privilege of treating all whom they consider their inferiors as knaves and fools. It makes me chuckle when I reflect how often this self-complacency and ill-timed insolence have facilitated my views upon their purses and properly -- but to proceed:) 'I dare say you do,' said he; 'and thieving too to perfection; but what do you want prying about my tent here?' I told him that I wanted employment. 'Good,' said he; 'but what can you do? Can you steal a horse?' 'Ah, no, Massa,' answered I, 'you are too hard on your poor servant.' 'In what then do you excel?' asked he; -- can you run?' 'Run!' said I; 'yes -- like a buck:' -- whereupon, making a sudden snatch at his silver surpoose, arrackdar, and mouth-piece, of which I possessed myself in an instant, I took to my heels, and was out of sight in the twinkling of an eye. Horses were soon saddled, and in pursuit of me. I had worn until this time a large beard, and the dress of an old man; but finding myself too closely followed by the enemy I threw my disguise as well as my booty into a dry well, and then, retracing my steps with great deliberation, I met my pursuers with apparent unconcern. The young Sub, almost mad with rage that he should have been so completely outwitted, eyeing me as I came up, without recognizing me, asked, with breathless anxiety, if I had seen a person running in that direction?'What! the fellow with a long beard?' replied I; 'yes, I met him about five hundred yards off, and saw him take horse by the tree which you see yonder.' This was enough: off went the whole party helter skelter in the direction I had pointed out to them, while I, intent on more certain game, made with rapid strides towards young master's tent. Here I found a single bearer only, and him I desired to take some ropes to his master without delay, to bind the thief whom I had seen him catch. Off started the bearer, leaving me to keep watch over his employer's property. This I did with great caution until he was fairly out of sight, and then, breaking open Massa's camel trunks, I extracted therefrom a hundred and fifty rupees, (which, I need scarcely observe, were all that I could find) and a few other trifles not worth mentioning -- such as a watch, a silver snuff-box. two gold rings, and the like. All these I arranged in a very snug and portable little dressing-case, and scampered off towards Loodeanna, with my prize, as fast as my legs would carry me.

"Thus ended, to my credit as well as profit, my first business transaction. But I had not yet fully accomplished my designs on this pert and conceited stripling, who, as I had reason to believe, had still in his possession numerous little articles which might be useful to myself or my friends. The next morning, therefore, I repaired to the station of Loodeanna, and had the satis. faction of seeing my victim enter, with dejected countenance, into the cantonments. I passed him without being recognized, and gave him one of my best salaams. Shortly after this I sported a fine pair of red whiskers, with moustachios of the same colour, and tendered my services as a chokeydar, (watchman,) to guard his property and person against the tricks of the petty cantonment pilferers. I was fortunate enough to be accepted, and the very following night, when he was boozing with his new companions at the mess, I took a fancy to his double-barrelled gun and a pair of beautiful pistols, which were nicely packed together in a case. I wish all officers would be equally careful, it would save poor thieves a vast deal of trouble; and I really must say, in favour of the young gentleman of whom I am speaking, that he certainly kept his little valuables in very neat and portable order. But I am straying from my story, and I fear shall exhaust your patience.

"I took a fancy, as I said before, to the gun and pistols, and of course, therefore, did not hesitate to take them into my own keeping without delay. Having deposited my new acquisition in a place of safety I began to reflect on the best way of disposing of myself; and it very naturally occurred to me that it would not be particularly desirable to show my face again at my new master's; indeed it seemed pretty obvious, that if I had any thing further to do at Loodeanna, it should be accomplished with all practicable despatch. I therefore left the station at once, and went, with two of my companions, and drew up the silver surpoose, clothes, &c. from the well where they were deposited; but, about midnight, as I knew that the general had invited a large party, I returned to Loodeanna by bye-roads, and assuming the dress of a Khitmutgar, I made direct for the general's cookhouse, and mixed, without suspicion, with the servants engaged for the occasion. Here, before I took my leave, I managed to increase my possessions by the addition of a tolerably good-looking camel-hair cloak, belonging to one of the party, and a few silver spoons, &c, which were lying about as though in want of a proprietor. But to say the truth, I was greatly disappointed in this affair, for I had expected a much richer booty, and this, I was well aware, was my last chance in Loodeanna. The cloak, to be sure, was a decided prize, it being an article which I absolutely stood in need of for my own personal comfort, for the winter season was fast approaching; but, as to spoons, they are not held in much estimation by those who know the use of their fingers at meals. When melted down, however, they served to make bangles for my children, and, as one cannot in this world always expect the full completion of one's wishes, I was obliged to be contented.

"Having quitted Loodeanna, and having been concerned in innumerable adventures similar to these which I have related, in other places with varied success, my cast of features, however skilfully disguised, became at length a little too well known in the different cantonments; so, as I had now a numerous family, for whose maintenance it was absolutely necessary that I should be industriously occupied, and had acquired a high reputation among my comrades for courage and craft, I resolved on taking entirely to the road for the future, not only as relieving me, for the time, from the fear of detection and apprehension, respecting which I began to entertain some qualms, but also as presenting the advantage of a more extensive sphere of action, in which my comprehensive and enterprising genius might be adequately employed.

"My first adventure on the road," continued the grinning convict, "you may perhaps think worthy of relation, as it will serve at once as a proof how easily the English are gulled in this part of the world, and as one reason, out of many, why we always prefer robbing them in preference to our countrymen. One morning, at a very early hour, I was on the scout, and met an old officer riding towards Loodeanna. I liked the looks of this grey-headed veteran, as well as the splendid appearance of his retinue. There were no half clad, half-starved followers, such as your poor devils of lieutenants hire, but pampered, well-dressed menials, who did credit to their keep and clothes. Before this cavalcade reached me I turned towards Loodeanna, and walked slowly on. I was in the disguise of a mendicant priest, with two baskets tied on the end of two sticks, such as pilgrims here carry on their joumies. On the old general's passing me, I gave him the usual greeting, and asked for alms, but not a single pice could I extract from him, and I was told, by an impudent fellow of a chupprassee, to furruck, (get out of the way.) This order I obeyed with seeming respect, and, drawing back a short distance to let the old curmudgeon pass, I joined in with the servants in the rear, from whom I learnt that their master was a general. 'So much the better,' thought I; 'I may have a rare haul here, if I manage matters well.' Resolved to take active measures immediately, I slunk behind, and withdrew to a spot where I knew I should find a party of my own tribe. Here I changed my dress, and instantly started again to overtake the noble general, carrying on my head some fowls and chickens for sale. I found the old gentleman seated at breakfast under a tree; but it was some time before I could strike a bargain with him. At last, however, I agreed to let him have my whole stock for a rupee, which he told me to get from the sirdar-bearer. Thus commissioned, I went to a large double pole-tent to demand my money, and imagine my delight, Sahib, when the incautious bearer pulled out a huge bag of rupees! This was no doubt intended to impress me with a high idea of his consequence. Some delay now occurred, in consequence of this trusty treasurer's claiming', as his own perquisite, four anas as dustooree (custom,) which he insisted on being deducted from the rupee that he was to pay me. This imposition I affected to resist, in order to gain time; and during the interval thus afforded me, I availed myself of the opportunity of examining how every thing was arranged in the tent, with a view to future operations. The negociation concluded, I went and salaamed the general, who told me I might call again when I had any more such bargains to offer. I returned two or three times after this, variously disguised, and with different commodities. On one of these visits I found that the general, having over-gorged himself at tiffen, had lain down to sleep, and I was delighted to observe that his bedstead rested on the edges of two camel-trunks, which I could not doubt contained valuable property of some kind or other. My future plans were now arranged. I returned to my own party, dressed myself with neatness, revisited the general, and representing myself as the zemindar of the village, asked him if he did not require some chokeydars for the night, for that he was now in a part of the country notorious for the robberies committed by the desperate Bhattees. No sooner did the gallant veteran hear the word Bhattee mentioned than he ordered me to procure him six watchmen immediately. These were soon found, in six of my tried companions, who, at my bidding, were speedily on the spot. These trusty guardians, I arranged, should be stationed outside the tent, while the general's sepoys were desired to form a chain round the whole of his servants and baggage. The noble general had, I suppose, taken a few extra glasses of wine that evening to keep up his spirits, for I had not posted my six men more than an hour before he began snoring most lustily. For the next two hours nothing was to be heard but continual challenging. This apparent vigilance on the part of the hired chokeydars, deluded the sepoys into a belief that their master was amply guarded without their assistance, and they therefore very cooly dropped off to sleep, on after another. Having walked my rounds, and convinced myself that they were all sound, I returned to the tent of the snoring general, and with the aid of my companions, taking each of us a corner of the bed, we, with great caution, raised the commander, bed and all, off his trunks, and deposited him quietly in another part of the room. Scarcely had we placed the old snoring general on terra firm when he turned over, gave a grunt, and said something about 'more wine.' All this time we were making ready for a bolt: again all was quiet, save the calling of some spies I had outside to keep the course clear. We seized the camel trunks, and were in the act of conveying them away, when the old boy was seized with a violent fit of sneezing; every sneeze ran through our veins like boiling lead. Again he went to sleep and snored aloud. We had got the trunks to the aperture which we had cut in the side of the tent, when one of my faithful companions stumbled over the foot of the sirdar-bearer, who grumbled out something we did not understand. When outside we heard the old general calling chedah, his sirdar, who always replied: -- 'I am coming, Sahib, I am coming, Sahib.' All was again as still as the grave, not even the solitary step vibrated on the cold night air. The general being thus disposed of, it is perfectly unnecessary for me to add that we soon conveyed both his trunks and ourselves from his neighbourhood. By this affair we divided cash to the amount of three hundred rupees each, besides various valuables both in gold and silver.

"In this manner," continued the narrator, "I went on practising for several years with tolerable success, and it will need only a few words to inform you how I was caught at last. I had become so well known and so formidable in the neighbourhood which I generally frequented, that my person was advertised, and a price set on my head. Several unfortunates, supposed to be me, had in consequence been fired at and wounded; and, therefore, as a chance shot may kill the devil, I thought it wise to absent myself for a time from my old haunts, and resolved to take a professional trip to the station of Cawnpore. Here I was concerned in a robbery on the premises of an English merchant, (I had always a special liking for the English,) and was just in the act of getting very comfortably off with my booty, when, not having thoroughly reconnoitered the premises, I found myself suddenly landed at the bottom of a dry well. From this trap there was no possibility of escape. I was soon dragged out, and taken before the judge, who, as a reward for many meritorious achievements, ornamented me with the badges which I now wear. I have still, however, a trick or two left, and do not live without hope, as I have a device in my head, which, should it succeed, will soon restore me to my friends, when, Sahib, should you be travelling in my way, with plenty of money in your possession, I should be happy to try my skill on you."

Thanking the man for his ingenious story, and the very obliging offer with which he concluded it, I rode on.

THE FORTUNE-TELLER, AND THE DISAPPOINTED.

The district of Bundlecund -- a division of the province of Allahabad -- presents three distinct plateaux, or elevations of table land, rising successively one above the other, each buttressed by its separate range of continuous mountains -- here called ghauts -- running parallel to each other at a distance of about ten miles. The first of these ranges is called the Vindhya, -- the second the Pannah, -- and the third -- which is the most elevated portion of the province -- is named the Bandair ghauts. The summits of many of these mountains are crowned with Hindoo temples, the ascent to which is by successive flights of narrow winding steps cut in the solid rock, leading to the base of a nearly perpendicular cliff, that rises abruptly to the height of twelve or fifteen feet, and, its face being smoothly scarped, can only be surmounted by means of rope ladders, the withdrawing of which is an effectual security from surprise. These temples are tenanted by a community of mendicant fortunetelling priests, who, under the garb of poverty and humility, affecting an outward show of strict devotion to prayer, meditation, and other religious exercises, and pretending to the gift of prophecy or divination, are enabled to live in voluptuous indolence upon the contributions which they extort by the practice of these impositions, from the credulity and superstitious fears of the ignorant inhabitants of the surrounding country, whom they are rarely seen except at an hour of the morning, when, the glancing of the sun's first rays upon their sleeping faces arousing them from their slumbers, they regularly issue forth in turn, to collect their supplies of food and raiment, and such other articles as the weakness of their deluded votaries may be induced to offer, and seldom fail to return well laden with the fruits of their prayers, which, though clothed in the language of humble solicitation, these artful petitioners have the skill to address with all the force of a lawful and divine command.

In the year 1817 a party of officers, attached to a division of the British army marching through that part of the country, having halted at Banda, the principal station of the district, and hearing these temples and their inmates much spoken of, determined on a visit to one of the most celebrated of these structures, in the second range, or Pannah ghauts, which was about fifteen miles distant, in order to satisfy their curiosity, which made them desirous of knowing in what manner those creatures passed their time, in a region seldom visible from below, through the veil of clouds in which it appeared to be almost constantly enveloped. Early one morning, accordingly, having completed the necessary preparations, and furnished themselves with such provisions and other articles, both of convenience and necessity, as it was supposed the party might require, they set forth, and found their journey, though abounding with a variety of beautiful views and other objects of interest, sufficiently toilsome; for, shortly after they had began to ascend the mountain, the path became exceedingly difficult, being very rugged, in many parts precipitous, frequently abrupt in its windings, and so extremely narrow as barely to allow the passage of one person at a time. About halfway up they arrived at a small platform or terrace, in the centre of which was a well bored in the solid rock, and finding the water perfectly clear and sweet, and delightfully cool and refreshing, they were halted and took their tiffen -- a regular meal with the British in India -- which corresponds with not to which they are accustomed at home, but may be accepted as either a subsidiary breakfast or an intermediate dinner, being too solid and serious a business to come under the denomination of luncheon, although it occupies the place of that repast, occurring in the long interval between breakfast -- which is generally taken at an early hour of the mooring -- and the dinner -- which is mostly deferred until evening. The view from this spot extended over a landscape of uncommon beauty. The distance was bounded by an amphitheatre of hills, whose summits, in many instances, crowned with temples of various forms and in various degrees of preservation, towered aloft in bold relief against the clear bright sky, and the glittering with the spleadour of the sun's golden light; their sides abundantly wooded, glowing with the rich and varied hues of the most luxuriant tropical vegetation; the richly cultivated plain between, studded with villages, and toops of Mango and other trees, from which temples of all forms and sizes peeped forth, amidst thriving plantations of cotton, and various choice gum-yielding shrubs, orchards of fruit trees of every kind, and extensive fields of almost every species of grain, and tracts of pasture covered with flocks and herds of cattle, sheep, and goats, through which a river flowed in gentle current, whose windings, often concealed by the undulations of the ground and the various objects that intervened, presented the appearance of many beautiful lakes. The sides of the mountain on which the party were assembled, were well fringed with trees and shrubs of various kinds, abundantly stocked with birds of the richest plumage, and numerous tribes of monkeys that gathered in chattering clusters around their path, following their every movement as if with the most jealous spirit of observation. Refreshed by their repast and the quiet enjoyment of the pleasing, tranquil, and native loveliness of the scene outspread before them, the party resumed their progress and toiling up the steep ascent until they had reached the base of the perpendicular cliff on which the temple was erected, were not a little surprised, as well as amused, at observing several grotesque-looking visages peering over the brink, in close espial of their motions. To climb the face of the rock, unaided from above, was clearly impossible, and huge piles of stony fragments were plainly discernible heaped up above, in situations the best adapted for the inevitable destruction of the luckless assailant who should provoke the discharge of their impending weight upon his head. The party, therefore, saw at once that their best policy was to adopt a tone of civility, in order to gain access to the object of their visit. One of them accordingly, as spokesman for the whole, thus addressed their vigilant overlookers: -- 

"I pray you let us up that we may see your temple, the beauty of which is so much admired." "No," said a hoary-headed priest, who now protruded his visage farther forward than his companions, "I will not; you have already profaned this sacred mount, by intruding thus far with your unhallowed tread. Begone, therefore, quickly, ere we hurl you headlong to the bottom of the steep." "Nay, but why so angry, good brother?" said the spokesman. "Brother!" shrieked the grinning knave, "I scorn the alliance; I spit upon your tribe; go herd with your brotherhood of swine that wallow in the filth of yonder Pariar hut." The Englishman was sorely nettled at this affront upon his dignity, and told his uncourteous reviler that civility of speech might have prevailed upon them to retire, if the objection to admitting them could not be removed by persuasion, but the gross rudeness and insolence which, without provocation, he had presumed to exhibit to them, would only stimulate them to persist in their intention of gaining admittance, by whatever means they might ultimately succeed in accomplishing their object. "Why what do you want here?" doggedly inquired the sullen priest. "We wish," said the spokesman of the party, "to take a leisurely survey of the beauties of the surrounding landscape from such a commanding eminence. We have also heard much of the piety and learning of the chief priest of this establishment, and should like to consult him on certain matters, the issue of which is yet concealed in the womb of futurity." -- "And are you provided with offerings for that purpose?" inquired, in sanctimonious accents, the mollified interrogator. "We are," was the brief reply; and scarcely had the welcome sound struck on the greedy ear of the priestly cormorant when a rope ladder descended, by which the party, mounting one by one, gained the platform. Here they found themselves on a small elevated spot of level ground about two hundred yards square, enclosed on all sides within a wall about six feet high and three feet thick. In the centre of the enclosure, a few yards distant from each other, stood two temples. One of these was of stately and imposing aspect, a square minar of white marble, towering to the height of one hundred and twenty feet, and surmounted with a cupola of red granite. The other temple was a square building, of brick, covered with a thick coating of chunam -- mortar -- made from the powder of calcined shells, the surface of which being hard, was polished as smooth as marble, a majestic cupola of red granite surmounting the centre of the roof. The entrance to the latter was through an arched gateway of pure white marble, of beautiful proportions and exquisite workmanship, the ornaments being carved in a style of the most minute and delicate finish. Ascending to this gateway by a flight of polished marble steps the party passed though it into a small square lobby or entrance hall, where they were received by an elderly-looking man in a priestly habit, to whose thin visage and sharp features, a pair of small hazel eyes of piercing brightness sunk deeply in their sockets, and a smile of peculiar cunning expression that played about his mouth, united in imparting a most sinister aspect. Having arranged the party, according to their ages, on six mats that were placed three on the right and three on the left side of the apartment, with a haughty and consquential air of superiority, designed to impress them with a strong sense of his dignity and importance, he seated himself on a chair that stood in a little removed beyond the centre of the innermost two mats, placing a book on his lap; and, having cast a slow and searching glance on each, at length addressed them as follows: -- "Sahib looge, -- gentlemen -- who among you is so bold as to wish to search into the yet undisclosed volume of futurity?" "I am," replied the former spokesman of the party. "Indeed!" said the hoary impostor, with a contemptuous sneer, and fixing a scowling look on the speaker, "then show me the palm of your hand." The person whom he thus addressed thrust forth his open hand so as to touch those of the seer, who, shrinking back, exclaimed: -- "hut! hut! Sahib! -- hence, hence, sir, -- touch me not!" But the Englishman, grasping with his own right hand the brown and scraggy paw of the sanctified insulter, gave it a a hearty John Bull's squeeze, which caused him to stamp, and rave, and struggle, and spit with fury, but his tormentor held him fast, as in a vice, until the scalding tears flowed in torrents down the furrows of his bronzed cheeks. At length, however, getting loose, he blew his fingers vehemently, then washed them, and then rubbed them with ashes, and grumblingly muttered: -- "I have often heard, Sahib, that you Feringhees (Englishmen) have iron hearts, but never before that, as I now find, you have iron hands." "These hands," said the soldier, with a provoking smile, "have grown hard in the service of my country, and have doubtless derived much of their strength from my being well-fed on good fat pork." The sound of that forbidden animal's name seemed to strike like an infernal spell upon the ear of the irritated priest, who, biting his skinny lips, knitting his brows, and shaking his clinched hands, burst suddenly through a door in the side of the apartment opposite to that by which the party had entered, which, immediately closing behind him, excluded him from their sight. His book, which he had let fall, remained on the floor, and, after they had indulged in a fit of hearty laughter, one of the party picked it up, and they all passed through the door by which their priestly friend had so precipitately retired, and found themselves in a spacious chapel, or hall of worship, under the dome in the centre of the building, where they saw two reverend-looking men prostrate on the ground, apparently occupied in their devotions, before the shrine of the tutelar divinity of the place. Disturbed by the sound of footsteps, from the approach of the party, they arose and saluted the intruders with a very low obeisance and a salaam with both hands. The spokesman of the visitors then inquired whither the old priest, who had just left them so precipitately, was gone; to which one of them answered, "to God's house;" and, on being asked where that was, waving both hands in a circular motion above his head, he replied, "there, Sahib." "How did he ascend?" continued the querist; "on the wings of an eagle," answered the old man. "And will he return?" said the Briton; "yes, when his consultation with God is concluded," said his informant. "Then your God admits mortals to a personal interview," observed the former. "Certainly, such as are perfectly devout and pious, as our good father, Dundoo Ram," said the latter. "Well then," added the officer, "his visit will probably be longer than we should be able to wait, otherwise we should have been glad to restore into his own hands this book, which he left behind him." "That book, Sahib," said the priest, in a solemn tone, "contains a strange and instructive story, which were well worth your hearing." "Oh," exclaimed the whole party at once, in answer, "we should be delighted to hear it." "Aye," said the reverend fakir, "but it is an indulgence which must be purchased." Having ascertained that' ten rupees was the sum expected for the tale, the party immediately made a contribution to that amount, and, the money being paid, the hoary pundit proceeded with his narrative, which one of the party, who took notes at the time, subsequently transcribed as follows: -- 

"In that temple -- pointing to the minar before described -- once lived a wise and pious man, -- the Pandoo Earn Hari, whose celebrity for sanctity and learning, and for his skill in divination, became so extended that people flocked from the most distant parts of the Eastern world to hear his discourses, and to consult him upon future events. Among other remarkable personages, Rajah Runjeet Mull, of Bhatgong, a prince of the race denominated Surya Bansi, or Offspring of the Sun, having heard of this good and wonderful man, although he resided at the distance of one thousand miles, in the valley of Nepaul, made a pilgrimage hither for the purpose of consulting him, and his visit, in the sequel, gave rise to the events which form the substance of this extraordinary tale. This Rajah Runjeet Mull had a daughter, one of the finest, most beautiful, accomplished, and lovely princesses that ever graced a musnud (throne). Her charms were the theme of a thousand poets, and princes and nobles, from many far-distant nations, sought her hand. Proposals of marriage out of number, backed with offers of large sums of money and rich gifts, were made and rejected; and in many instances rival importunities were only silenced by the issue, fatal to both parties, of the battles to the arbitrament of which they were referred. Six young princes, each the heir of a separate and independent sovereignty, at length made their appearance at Bhatgong at the same time, to proclaim their pretensions to the hand of the Rajah's fair daughter, for whom each one professed himself to be dying of love, and vowed the direst revenge if his suit should be rejected. Amidst this conflict of so many rival interests, threatening such desperate consequences, the Rajah declared he was unable to take upon himself the responsibility of deciding; and wished their claims to be referred to the result of their consultation with the wise and venerable and far-renowned Pandoo Ram Hari, to which they all agreed. Hither, accordingly, they repaired in pilgrimage, each attended by a numerous and splendid retinue from the court of his father, the Rajah Runjeet Mull, with a small party of his own followers, meeting them at the appointed time; and, on their arrival, they encamped in yonder plain. After they had refreshed themselves, and recruited their strength from the fatigue of their long journey, a notification was despatched to the Pandoo Ram Hari, of the object of their coming, and he appointed the following day for an interview with the Rajah -- the father of the fair maiden. The latter, accordingly, repaired to the temple early the next morning, and having stated to the sage Pandoo the troublesome nature of these rival pretensions, and fully informed him of the names, rank, family, wealth, and expectations of each of his daughter's suitors, he was advised to appoint a separate day for each, in succession, to have his interview of consultation with the Pandoo. On his return to the encampment, he acquainted them with the arrangement which had been determined upon, and the days being fixed for each, in the order of their of their respective ages, he invaded them all to partake of a sumptuous banquet in his tent, and on the following morning took his departure, on his return home, in order, as he stated, to make the necessary preparations for his daughter's nuptials with the fortunate individual to whom fate should decree the possession of her hand. On the morning of the third day after his departure, the junior of the princely suitors ascended the hill, and having been made to go through a variety of ceremonies in his introduction within the sacred enclosure of its summit, was conducted, with much solemnity, into the presence of the holy Pandoo, who received him with an air of high and dignified importance suited to the occasion, and, by a sign desired him to be seated on a tripod, or three-legged stool, about two paces distant, in front of the seat which he himself occupied, in the centre of the hall of the minar. The youth having taken the place assigned him, sat with the palms of his hands spread and outstretched towards the Pandoo, in the attitude of imploring the aid of his counsel, and the hoary seer, having for the space of several minutes carefully eyed him from head to foot, and apparently scanned with the utmost eagerness of scrutiny the lines of each extended hand stroked his flowing snow-white beard, and busily perused the golden characters that were traced on many successive pages of the mystic volume that lay open on his lap, and then shaking his venerable silvery locks and pausing awhile in an attitude of condolence, at length, in a soothing sympathetic tone, said, "the aspect of thy destiny seems not propitious to thy pretensions, respecting the fair daughter of the Rajah Runjeet Mull." The youth, who had little faith in these oracular and mystical expoundings of the decrees of fate, having been persuaded by the sceptics and libertines with whom he associated, that they were mere tricks and delusions, -- the lying inventions of avaricious priestcraft, -- coolly observed in answer, "Indeed! I regret to hear that my star of life is at present obscured by the clouds of evil fortune; but, is there no way, -- by offerings and rich gifts, -- these diamonds, for instance, worth an entire lack of rupees, -- to propitiate the rulers of our destiny?" As he concluded this sentence, the full dark eye of the youth, fixed with a piercing look upon the face of him to whom it was addressed, encountered the cunning leer of the small grey eye of the diviner, who at once perceived the drift of his question, and, to divert the suspicion of the too penetrating youth from himself, and gain time for the preparation of a suitable answer, which he hoped might be in part, if not implicitly, believed, he said that was a topic upon which they must consult the oracle. He then arose, and touching with a wand that he held in his right hand a small bright circular ornament, on the upper border of the shrine in front of which he had been sitting, the sound was immediately heard of three strokes upon a great gong that was nowhere visible, but seemed to be hung in the dome overhead; and, in about five minutes afterwards, a pannel in the front of the shrine being suddenly withdrawn disclosed a flight of marble steps leading down to a vaulted passage below, into which the Pandoo descending conducted the young prince, whom he had taken by the hand. The pannel closing behind them they were left to proceed in utter darkness. The noise of their footsteps reverberating in repeated echoes, as they slowly paced along the pavement whose polished surface was as slippery as glass, -- the only sound that struck upon the ear,-- deepened the impression produced upon the mind of the youthful consultant by the surrounding gloom into which he had been thus suddenly plunged, and awakened within him a feeling approaching to awe. Under the influence of these sensations, their progress, which, though purposely delayed, extended not beyond a few minutes, appeared to the anxious youth to be protracted in duration to almost as many hours, and at length terminated by their suddenly emerging, in a manner so imperceptible and unexpected as to redouble his astonishment, in that lobby from which you, but now, have passed hither. There, after a pause of several minutes, during which he seemed to be devoutly engaged in solemn prayer, the venerable Pandoo Ram Hari, bowing low three times with his hands joined upon his forehead, then tapped with his wand at that door, which instantly flew open, and discovered an aged priest seated by the side of an altar, occupying the spot on which I now stand. He was a man of mild and reverend mien; his long thin flowing locks, and ample descending beard, in their silvery whiteness rivalled the snowy splendour of his muslin robe; and the calm and collected gravity of his look was calculated to instil a feeling of respect for his presence, into minds the most light and unreflecting. Judging from his appearance he might, in age, have been deemed the father of all men living in the world. Having acknowledged the obeisances of the youthful prince and his sage conductor, by a gentle inclination of his venerable head and a slight waving gesture of his hand, he asked in a low and solemn tone, "who called upon the oracle?" "It was I," returned the Pandoo Ram Hari, with a respectful and deferential air, "in compliance with the wishes of this illustrious youth, who, dissatisfied with the present clouded and lowering aspect of his fortunes, proffers a rich offering of diamonds at the shrine of destiny, to learn, by the mouth of its oracle, if the ruler of his fate may not be influenced to give a favourable turning to their future course." "That," replied the senior, slowly shaking his hoary head, "is, indeed, a searching inquiry, and can only be answered from above." "Then, I pray you," said the youth, "to procure me the answer without delay; for if I am forbidden to hope for success in my suit with the fair daughter of the Rajah Runjeet Mull, ere this moon shall sink to rise no more, I shall have run the career of my existence!" The aged priest then slowly arose, and standing before the altar, with his face turned towards that shrine, while the youthful prince on one hand and the sage Pandoo Ram Hari on the other, each at two paces distance, bowing low, salaamed with both hands joined upon their foreheads, upraised from the altar a huge khonk to which he applied his lips with several insonorous puffs, and then gazing upwards into the hollow of the dome above, uttered several sentences in some language unknown to the youthful stranger, as if in conversation with some invisible being. At length, dropping his chin upon his bosom, and lowering his arms, (which he had previously held up to their fullest stretch above his head, he extended his right hand, containing a paper that had hitherto lain concealed in his sleeve, to the apparently awestruck Pandoo Ram Hari, who read as follows: "The offering of the youth is accepted; the star of his hopes will run a clearer course: -- let him give a hundred gold mohurs to the attendant ministers of the oracle!" "Mercenary scoundrels! rapacious and extortionate villains!" lowly muttered the wrathful youth between his teeth, and was on the point of turning upon his heel with an indignant refusal to submit to this additional exaction, when the aged priest, affecting not to observe the state of irritation he was in, in quiet and gentle accents said, -- "the offering to the oracle must be presently made; the gift to its servants may abide the accomplishment of its decree." This timely return to his own terms at once pacified the proud and insulted spirit of the young prince, who placed the diamonds in the ready hands of the hoary-headed expectant, and the latter, having eyed them for an instant, with a sudden jerk of both arms, upwards, pretended to cast them towards the heavens, but, dexterously slipping one into his mouth, passed the others into the hanging sleeves of his robe. The manoeuvre did not escape the notice of the observant youth, who, approaching the aged minister with a respectful air, and both hands outstretched as in expectation of a friendly grasp, thus addressed him, -- "and when, oh my venerable father! may thy son look to be blessed with the possession of the dear object of his most ardent love?" But the venerable senior, folding his arms upon his breast, and making a low obeisance, slowly and silently retired; while the sage Pandoo replied, "his lips are sealed, nor can he speak more until commissioned from on high." "Indeed!" said the youthful prince, and scornfully withdrawing from, the precincts of the temple, he rejoined his rival brethren in their encampment on the plain. The rest were paraded after a similar fashion, each on his appointed day, the routine being slightly varied to meet the difference of their tempers, but the chief distinction consisting in the nature and value of the bribe offered by each suitor and the amount of contribution to which they were respectively subjected, which was augmented in the order of their succession. Their individual visits to the oracle having been completed, a day was appointed on which they were to repair in a body, to learn in whose favour the oracle had been pleased to dispose of the happy lot -- to espouse the fair heiress of Bhatgong. Early on the morning of that anxiously looked for day, the six young princes, each attended, as had been ordered, by only two followers, but swelling with confidence in his own expectations of success, and inwardly exulting over his rivals, issued from their tents and slowly moved towards the hill, the summit of which, owing to the protraction of their entertainment at the spot where the visitors usually halt for refreshment, they did not gain until past mid-day. When, at length, they arrived at the foot of the escarpment, not a soul appeared to receive them. This, however, they were disposed to attribute to the resentment of the ministers of the oracle at having been kept too long in waiting. Finding the ladders lowered in readiness, they mounted in turn, and passed within the enclosure, where not a living being met their view. They proceeded to the minar, -- its hall was deserted; they then rushed to the temple, -- all its chambers were empty; the place was a complete solitude, and of the sage Pandoo Ram Hari, his venerable brother, the oracle, or the offerings, not a vestige could they trace. Amazement seized upon all! After awhile, each, in succession, declared his claim to the hand of her whom they all desired, to be established, by a positive promise of the oracle in his favour; not one, however, had the candour to state the bribe which he had offered as the price of that valueless purchase. Finally, overwhelmed with confusion at the grossness of the imposition by which they had been cheated, they severally returned to their respective homes, to seek in other pursuits a diversion from the chagrin and mortification they experienced from their disappointment, vowing the direst vengeance to the Pandoo Ram Hari, and the other "ministers of the oracle," who were, however, too deeply read in the mysteries of the "Book of Fate," ever to venture within their clutches.

"The first of their successors in the ministry of these temples found, on his arrival here, this volume, entitled the "Book of the Oracle of Destiny," deposited on this shrine; but of the fair daughter of the Rajah Runjeet Mull, the heiress of Bhatgong, -- whether she be still living, or whether she died maid, wife, or widow, this book sayeth not."

NUNKOODAUS, THE COBBLER OF DELHI.

From time immemorial Oriental princes have been curious in human abortions. They love to compel into their service all whom nature formed in mimicry of man, and hence their story-tellers -- the Asiatic Sir Walter Scotts -- and their porters are either giants or dwarfs; something out of the common order of nature is dear to their fancy; and, though laughter does not suit the dignified gravity of their deportment, their household is perpetually jostled by some mirth-inspiring creatures, who, if not witty themselves, are, like Falstaff, the cause of wit in others. In Europe the great once found amusement in the fooleries of fools; but, in the East, royal partiality still seeks to distinguish those errors of creation that walk the earth, and yet scarcely belong to it. One of these was Nunkoodaus, the cobbler of Delhi, not long since riding-master to his majesty of that ancient city, and, for all I know, he may still be usefully employed in provoking the laughter of the sober Mahometans of Delhi.

Nunkoodaus was a native of that renowned city; and, though he was not the first of his family, it is to be hoped he was the last of his race. He was like nothing on earth, and yet was human. He stood, if he could be said to stand, just three feet six inches high; but, viewed in front, he bore a very strong resemblance to a crab; yet a different prospect presented so many disproportions, that a spectator was at a loss to say what he was like. As he resembled nothing else, he might be said not to resemble himself, for he had a short leg and a long one, a short foot and a long one, a long arm and a short one, a high shoulder and a low one, one foot was turned in and the other turned out, one leg was bowed and the other seemed lovingly to follow it, on one foot were seven toes and on the other five, one hand wanted a thumb and the other had got two, and his fingers violated all the rules of proportion. He was, poor fellow! odd in every thing, and very odd in every thing he said. He had but one eye in his head, and but one ear on it; and the capital of this Corinthian column seemed shorn of its bumpy honours to swell into monstrous aggravation its most prominent feature. It completely overshadowed his eye, and effectually concealed the expansion of his mouth. All the natural colours, with all their variety of shades, were represented in it; and the good people of Delhi honoured with as much reverence the proboscis of Nunkoodaus, as the play-going citizens of London are wont to bestow upon the upturned feature of Mr. Liston. As Orientals are still prone to designate people by convenient sobriquets, it followed, of course, that Nunkoodaus' nose would not be overlooked; and, accordingly, he was known in his early days by the cognomen of the Nosey Cobbler.

Nunkoo's mind bore a great resemblance to his body. There was a strong sympathy between them, and the one was just as crooked as the other; but though, when provoked into anger, he swelled like a frog almost into bursting, and fastened with the tenacity of a leech on the offender, his rage was easily subdued; and a cup of arrack never failed to convert him into a joke-loving, merry-making little fellow. At such a time he could tell a good story, stuffed with Arabian wonders, and perpetrate a barefaced lie with tolerable plausibility. Like other ordinary creatures, he was gifted with a fine voice, and his stall was daily surrounded with the naked amateurs of Delhi, who delighted in his tenor notes. If he had many good qualities, he had, also, many bad ones. One of his best qualities was an aversion to the bottle, and one of his worst was an inordinate attachment to what it contained. When drunk -- of this sin he was daily guilty -- he seemed to forget whether he ought to walk on his hands or his feet, for he used both indiscriminately. Poor soul! methinks I see him now, waddling along like a plethoric duck, one fellow crying, "Allah! what a nose!" another exclaiming, "well, that's what may be called a nose!" while a third enquired if it were a nose at all! Out of these observations grew a fund of vulgar wit, but poor Nunkoo bore it all philosophically; it was what he was accustomed to, and use doth breed a habit of indifference, even in a cobbler.

Nunkoodaus was the only, and, of course, the darling son of his parents. Like their heir, they loved a drop; and, from a too frequent habit of visiting the arrack vender, they dropped into the holy stream while Nunkoo was yet in his eighteenth year. To appease the thirst of grief he got drunk as speedily as possible; and, while that reverie of the brain continued, the ancient cobbler and his noisy spouse were conged and thrown into the river Ganges, the tunfed grave of millions. When awakened from the stupor of the brain, nature asserted its sway, and a big tear did homage to the tenderness of his heart; but the globular liquid served only to remind him of the arrack shop, and thither he bent his way. A few old friends saluted him as he entered, expressing their wonder at the shortness of his mourning. "Nosey," said one, "you are soon abroad." "And why not," replied Nunkoo; "it is now three days since my father and mother died, and, poor souls! if they have had a prosperous voyage down the river, they are now three hundred miles from this spot; if I wept, they would not hear me; if I groaned, my sighs would not reach them; and, since my sorrow cannot restore them to life, I must needs, Mudasee, take something to keep life in myself." And, so saying, he watered his mouth with the arrack. His heart again softened; and as he bethought himself of his prospects in life, the tears coursed one another down his piteous nose, which a neighbour observing, offered him the consolation of a pinch of snuff. Nunkoo inhaled it with avaricious avidity; but he did not wait to hear the ironical laugh of the donor, to discover that a trick had been played upon him. He sneezed loudly, and again still louder; and on i putting up his hand, he found, to his amazement, that the substitute for "pungent grains of titillating dust" had horribly aggravated the deformities of his most prominent organ. He called on Allah in a bad spirit and a good spirit; but as his sufferings excited no pity, he rushed out of the shop, and went he knew not where. He wished devoutly that he could not, as the wags advised him, follow his nose. Overcome at once with rage and arrack, he sat himself down by the way-side, and after swearing a prayer or two, fell asleep. In this condition he was found by a gang of thieves; and either mistaking him for booty, or wishing to play him a trick, they carried him into the country. When he awoke next morning, the sun shone in painful effulgence upon his nose; and his odd figure had collected in wonderment around him the goats and herds of the plain.

Sobriety brings thought: and poor Nunkoo began to reflect on his condition. Where was he? The distant minarets of Delhi informed him that he was not very far from his native city; but just as he arose to return thither, a troop of pilgrims came up. The first sentiment his appearance excited was one of fear: they took him for some genie of the place, and made a detour to avoid him. A priest, more bold than his companions, inquired who or what he was. "Truly," said Nunkoo, "a mender of soles, though not of your profession; and though I help to fortify the understandings of my neighbours, they seem to grow no wiser or better on that account." At this moment the priest's horse caught sight of the Cobbler, and taking the bit in his mouth, fairly ran away with his reverence. Nunkoo, for the first time that day, burst into one of his horrible laughs; and while the fit was yet on him, a regiment of English infantry came up. Struck by the oddity of his figure, the colonel halted; and pleased with the humour of the cobbler's replies, ordered him to be placed on the back of his own poney. The poney resisted; but his reluctance was overcome, and Nunkoo was fairly seated on his back. When released from restraint, however, the poney endeavoured to rid himself of his burden, for which purpose he set off at full speed. The colonel and all the equestrians present pursued, hallooing like English fox-hunters. The herds and goats fled, and the crows hovered over the fugitives. Poor Nunkoo soon lost the sight of his eye; but as he had taken the precaution to seize the mane in one hand, and the tail in the other, he maintained his seat. The poney, alarmed at his cries, held on his speed, and dashed with fury through the streets and bazaars of Delhi. Rice stands were overturned; and the curry spoiled by the eagerness of the crowd to see this Oriental Gilpin; but the figure of the jockey provoked in all simultaneous fits of laughter. Among those who witnessed the race was the son of the king; and, as he was infinitely pleased with the sport, he ordered that the rider should be brought before him. This being done, the prince went to his father, related the particulars, and so pleased was his majesty with the adventure, that, in grave mockery, he dubbed Nunkoo riding-master to the king; and once a week, from that time forward, the fortunate cobbler had to ride his race round the court yard, for the amusement of all the royal family, the ladies at such times being allowed to peep at the strange equestrian.

MEERAH; OR, THE VICTIM OF AVARICE.

In the town of Futtehghur, in the province of Agra, in Bengal, lived a Mussulman named Kheratree. He was in person tall and well-formed, with handsome features and of dignified and graceful deportment; had been well educated, and was distinguished among his neighbours by his superior intelligence, his frankness of disposition, the uprightness of his dealings, and the integrity and simplicity of his character. He was a merchant, and a man of considerable opulence. At the age of five and twenty he became enamoured of Meerah, a beauteous, lovely, and ingenuous girl, the daughter of a widow, whose family was, in wealth, and that alone, inferior to his own. Regardless, however, of circumstances in that respect, and seeking only the society of an amiable and intelligent being, fitted to be the partner of his heart, the companion of his bosom, capable of promoting and worthy to share his domestic bliss, he married her, and their union seemed to give promise of a long life of peace and happiness to both. But, alas! how true is that which the poet sings: -- 

"All that's bright must fade, -- 
The brightest still the fleetest;
All that's sweet was made
But to be lost -- when sweetest!"

The nature of his business compelled Kheratree to make an annual tour of several of the principal cities of Hindostan, where the great fairs are held, for the purpose of disposing of various kinds of merchandize, and furnishing himself with such commodities -- the growth and manufacture of distant countries -- as were in request at home, or for which he could find a ready and profitable market on the coast. In the first three years after his marriage, his wife accompanied him in these excursions; but, at the period of his setting out upon his journey in the fourth year, she became a mother, and he was consequently compelled to leave her at home, consoling himself, under the affliction of parting from her at such a season, with the assurance that, in the society of his sister and under the protection and care of her mother, nothing that the most fond solicitude and tender attention could supply would be wanting for her comfort and enjoyment in his absence. Meenah, the mother of Meerah, by her exact performance of her household duties, and her punctilious observance of the rites and ordinances of her religion, had acquired the reputation of a virtuous and exemplary matron; but her heart was cold, her feelings callous, and her whole soul a prey to avarice. Meerah, though dutiful and affectionate in the highest was not altogether blind to her mother's but, judging from the slight and imperfect notion which the purity of her own character enabled her to form of the power which that pernicious passion, when indulged, acquires over the mind, she believed her incapable of any serious crime to procure its gratification, and had, therefore, with the most studious and persevering anxiety, endeavoured to conceal her parent's defect from the observation of her husband. For three months after the departure of the latter, the infant to which she had given birth continued to thrive; and, as with a youthful mother's fondness she watched its daily progressive advance in health and beauty, she exulted in the anticipation of the joy with which its delighted father would hail its growth and improvement, on his looked-for return. Often, as was natural, would she give vent in the mother to those feelings of maternal affection which the overflowing gladness of her bosom had not the power to restrain; and she was pleased while she observed with wonder the earnestness with which her mother appeared to sympathize in the ardour of her expressions on those occasions, evincing, as it did, a warmth of affection for which she had not previously given her credit. These transports, however, and the pleasing train of reflections to which they gave rise were fated not to be of long continuance. In the fullest bloom of apparent health, in the midst of as hearty and robust a display of joyous happiness as infancy can exhibit, the blossom of her hopes on a sudden drooped and, without the slightest apparent symptom of previous ailment, died! The anguish which rived the heart of Meerah, at this privation, who can describe? Who shall pourtray her agony as she beheld its little tomb closed upon the remains of the babe which but a few short hours before had rested on her bosom, in that roseate glow of exuberant health and loveliness that awakened all a mother's pride and engaged her most endearing caresses? For several days she was inconsolable; her grief for the loss of her child seeming to be rendered almost insupportable by the sudden and instantaneous manner of her bereavement. A gloomy tranquillity succeeded, and she would sit for hours together absorbed in deep abstraction, heaving the bitter sigh of silent heart-consuming sorrow, -- the agony of her own affliction deriving sorrow, -- the agony of her own affliction deriving additional poignancy from her dread and anticipation of the shock which the announcement of the mournful event would occasion to the feelings of her husband. Time at length moderated the intensity of her sorrow, and the tender assiduity of the attentions she experienced from the gentle Fatima, the sister of Kheratree, who was a truly amiable girl, together with the influence of the religious precepts which had been instilled into her mind, from her early youth, brought her to a state of settled composure in which her mind became perfectly tranquil and resigned. To this her mother also greatly contributed by her frequent but gentle remonstrances, in which she represented the distempered grief that she was indulging as a perverse and wicked rebellion against the will of that Divine Providence in whose goodness and wisdom it was the duty of all to place the most perfect trust and confidence. She also deprecated the idea of her continuing to seclude herself, as she hitherto had done, in the solitude of her own chamber, as an abandonment of her natural obligations, and a censurable forgetfulness of the duties of her station, urging her, therefore, to resume her proper position in society, and by degrees to return to her former habits of life. In these friendly counsels and persuasions Fatima joined most cordially, and they finally prevailed upon her to show herself in company. Meerah's seeming recovery of her former peace and tranquillity spread universal satisfaction throughout her household and amongst her numerous kindred and friends; and her mother, congratulating her on the improvement in her appearance, told her that she had invited a party of friends of her own to a little entertainment, which she was preparing to give on a certain day then approaching, among whom was a young man of great merit and information, a distant relation of their family, who had recently returned from his travels into many distant countries; he had heard of her loss and sympathized with her distress, and as his conversation could not fail to afford abundant sources of amusement, which would be of great service in diverting her mind from the melancholy reflections with which it had of late been almost wholly occupied, she earnestly desired that she would gratify them with her presence on the occasion. Meerah, gratefully appreciating the efforts of her parent to promote her comfort, promised compliance, and the latter, unable to conceal her de- light at the success of her project, withdrew at once to her own apartment. At length Meerah retired to her chamber for the night. The windows of the apartment commanded a view of a spacious, luxuriant, highly-cultivated, and well-kept pleasure garden attached to the house; the night was clear and serene; the gentle waving of the summits of the forest trees, in the distance, was just distinguishable by the light of the moon from the dark foliage that seemed to sleep in silent gloom and undisturbed tranquillity below; the dark blue vault of heaven glowed with the splendour of its beautiful fretwork of myriads of bright golden stars; the fragrance of an infinite variety of flowering shrubs from many a bower, and the perfume of the orange and citron groves, borne on the wing of the night breeze, filled the air with a thousand aromatic odours, that steeped the senses in a delicious softness of repose. Indisposed to sleep, Meerah, dismissing her attendant, seated herself at a window, with a natural wish to indulge in the contemplation to which the silent beauty of the scene, harmonizing as it did with the pensive tone of her mind, so strongly invited. Lost in her quiet musings, she heeded not the lapse of time, and the hours glided smoothly and unnoted away, until the stroke of the distant gong, announcing the commencement of another day, aroused her from her revery. Slowly rising, she was then about to seek her couch, when she observed a tall figure stealthily advancing along a walk, which led, in many a wind, from a distant and retired gate of the garden to the house, passing beneath her window. Placing herself so as, without being observed, to command a clear view of whoever might pass below, she watched the approach of the intruder, who, with slow and cautious steps, glided silently past. The form was that of a man enveloped in a loose robe. The slight rustling sound produced by his movement in passing immediately ceased, and was succeeded by a suppressed whispering of voices, from persons apparently engaged in earnest and animated conversation. The tones became presently louder and more distinguishable, and it soon became perceptible that some female was the subject of this nocturnal conference. The colloquy was continued for a considerable time, but the studied obscurity of the allusions conveyed by the few expressions that could be but indistinctly collected, from the rapid utterance and mysterious manner in which they were delivered, effectually concealed its purport. At length the parties seemed to be advancing along the walk nearer to the window at which Meerah was standing, and when they came beneath it, they stopped, and she heard one of them say, in a loud whisper, "that is her room." A short pause then ensued, after which the former speaker again resumed; "there is no longer any obstacle to the full accomplishment of your wishes. Her infant is removed; her husband will be yet a long time absent; your introduction is already provided for; the rest depends on your own gallantry, and the address with which you pursue the advantages thus secured to you. Amidst the gratification which you will derive from success, you will not think much of what you have given as the consideration for my services in the affair; but, I pray you, be most particularly cautious in guarding against any discovery of my connection with your proceedings." -- "It is true," said a voice of deeper tone, "that the possession of Meerah has long been the object dearest to my heart, and that I would not have hesitated to sacrifice one half of my fortune to attain it; but, accustomed as I have been to pursue the gratification of my passions, regardless of the cost, and with little scruple as to the means, I yet could never have brought myself to agree to the shedding of blood, in order to facilitate the execution of my designs, nor could I have entertained the idea of making a successful approach to a woman's affections through the void produced in a young mother's breast by the murder of her child. It will be some time ere I shall recover from the shock which my feelings have sustained from your cold-blooded and unfeeling avowal of your having perpetrated that crime."

Meerah, who had listened in breathless silence to this discourse, until the intense agony of her feelings was wrought up to a pitch beyond her power of endurance, doubting, at length, the evidence of her ears, now threw up the window and, leaning forward to catch a clear view of the figures which were thus brought almost within her touch, found the horrible suspicion awakened by what she had overheard, too fully verified for the possibility of doubt, and uttering a piercing shriek she fell back senseless on the floor of her apartment. The noise of her fall awakened her attendant, who was sleeping in an anti-chamber, and, rushing in, she discovered her mistress extended apparently lifeless near the window. She immediately alarmed the household, and, lights and other assistance being procured, every means were resorted to for the purpose of restoring animation to the pallid and insensible form of Meerah. It was not until several hours had elapsed that she exhibited any symptoms of returning consciousness; and, for some time after the unclosing of her full dark eyes, she appeared to be in a state of phrenzy. Every means that the tenderest and most affectionate solicitude, on the part of Fatima, could suggest for calming and consoling her was assiduously applied, but to little purpose. She continued, for a considerable time, deliriously raving about her husband, her child, and her mother, and, at length exhausted by the violence of the excitement she had undergone, she sunk into an unquiet slumber, which lasted some time. The affectionate disposition of her sister-in-law was sorely grieved at this sudden and violent indisposition of Meerah, which, when they regarded the previously increasing composure of her mind, appeared to Fatima and her attendants so mysterious and unaccountable as to baffle all their efforts to conjecture its cause. After a considerable interval of repose, Meerah awakened, to all appearance much more tranquil and collected, and having taken a cordial draught that was administered to her, was listening to the inquiry of her favourite attendant as to the cause of her agitation, when her mother entered. Fixing her eyes upon her for an instant, as she approached her couch, she screamed aloud and instantly fainted. Her mother became greatly agitated, and was, with" great reluctance, induced to quit the room. When Meerah revived every pains was taken to keep her quiet, and to prevent any sudden appearance that might renew her agitation, and, in a few hours, she was so far recovered as to announce her intention of disclosing the circumstances which had so powerfully affected her. On the following morning she desired that the Cutwal, (head of the town police), of Futtehghur, should be sent for, and, on his arrival, she entered into a minute statement of the occurrences and conversation in the garden of which she had been an accidental witness, as we have related them, adding, that on looking out to discover the persons of the speakers she saw a tall and handsome young man, wrapped in a loose robe, and, standing near him -- her mother! The moment she had given utterance to this concluding declaration a violent shudder convulsed her whole frame, her eyes assumed a glassy appearance, and she fell back in a fit.

Directions were immediately given that the mother should be secured; but the latter, whose object in entering the chamber of her suffering daughter, as above described, was to ascertain whether she had been indeed discovered, took alarm from the effects which her presence had produced, and absconded shortly after retiring from the apartment. A diligent search was now set on foot, but she had taken effectual precautions to baffle the vigilance of her pursuers. The suffering victim of a wretched mother's avarice continued in a state of insensibility throughout the greater part of the day, and when, at length, towards evening she revived, it was evident that she was fast sinking under the blow which her best affections had sustained. She prayed fervently that her husband's return might be hastened, and the supplication had scarcely passed her lips when his arrival was announced, for circumstances had unexpectedly, occurred to expedite the transaction of a considerable portion of his business, and a vague and unaccountable feeling of uneasiness,-- an undefinable apprehension of ill, -- an indefinite sense of misfortune or impending danger to his domestic peace, such as has been often experienced when

"Coming events cast their shadows before,"

had induced him to devote the interval between two of the fairs to which he resorted to a hasty and unlooked-for visit to his home. He entered the chamber of the invalid, but it was only to witness the last moments of his beloved wife's earthly existence and to close her eyes; for, after recovering from the agitation caused by his sudden arrival, her remaining strength barely sustained her through the recital of the dreadful discovery she had to make to him, and on its conclusion, sobbing hysterically a few times, she expired. Overwhelmed with anguish at the sudden and utter bereavement of the two objects most dear to him in life, by the death of his young and lovely wife and the murder of his only child, Kheratree sunk by the side of the corpse, from which he was afterwards, not without considerable difficulty, separated, and his feelings remained in the state of stupor into which they were plunged by the weight of his affliction, and from which he never recovered. He was supported to the grave, to which he saw consigned the remains of his so lately beautiful and amiable wife, -- but his eyes were fixed gazingly upon vacancy, and he seemed wholly unconscious of what was passing. His sufferings were terminated by a violent attack of paralysis that, in the course of a few days, from the full bloom of handsome and healthy manhood, and the mid-career of affluence and prosperity, sent him a lifeless tenant to the tomb which had so recently enclosed his Meerah and her offspring.

The body of Meenah, the fugitive and guilty parent, was shortly afterwards discovered in a sequestered track beside the margin of the Ganges. It was lifeless, and appearances made it evident that she had been robbed and murdered, a fate which the atrocity of the crimes imputed to her divested of all pity. Years rolled on without bringing to light any additional circumstances farther to elucidate the mystery which yet seemed to hang round this story; and many, who, though aware of her avaricious and greedy disposition, yet thought it impossible that that passion should have so thoroughly extinguished the better feelings of her nature, as to lead her for its gratification to the murder of an infant, and one so nearly allied to her, inclined at length to regard the statement of Meerah as a delusion arising out of her distempered fancy, in a state of mind disordered by excessive grief for the loss of her infant. No means presenting themselves of ascertaining a clearer view of the case, and the subject being one of a nature not to be adverted to without considerable pain, the family of Kheratree had, by common consent, long abstained from all reference to the circumstances, when the death of a person occurred who had been long remarked for the profligate and dissolute course of life which he led, and on the day of his funeral a sealed packet was delivered to the oldest surviving relative of Kheratree, which revealed the true state of the case that had been so long the subject of doubtful conjecture and uncertain speculation. The writer avowed that he had long nourished a guilty passion for Meerah, which he was determined to gratify, if it were possible to effect it by any means within his reach. Her virtuous character and discreet behaviour long baffled his attempts to obtain access to her presence; but, at length, becoming acquainted with the covetousness of her mother's disposition, he sought to obtain an introduction through her, by administering to her appetite for money, and by accumulated bribes he succeeded in winning her completely to his purpose. She agreed to secure him an introduction to Meerah's society, and on his succeeding in the ultimate object of his wishes she was to receive a farther sum of considerable amount. To secure the latter she determined on the removal of every obstacle; and expecting her daughter's feelings would be rendered more susceptible by sorrow for the loss of her child which, by its constantly reminding her of its father, was a great impediment to their design so long as it continued in the way, she administered poison to the infant. Of this diabolical crime the writer declared himself to have been wholly ignorant, until informed of it by her in the garden on the night when Meerah, overhearing them, made the discovery. He had felt appalled at the atrocity of the deed, and was upbraiding Meenah with her foul and unnatural conduct, when their conference was suddenly cut short by the opening of a window immediately above them and a piercing shriek of agony from a female. He concluded with a declaration that the event had rendered his subsequent life a hell upon earth, his mind having never known a moment's relief from the pangs of remorse, terror, and apprehension of discovery which had haunted him in consequence; and that his oath of secrecy to his vile accomplice, and the dread he felt of the vengeance and abhorrence it would draw upon him, had prevented him from making this disclosure until they were both removed beyond the reach of human retribution.

Thus was all uncertainty at length removed, and it is difficult to say whether the inhabitants of Futtehghur were more deeply affected with sympathy for the fate of the virtuous and estimable Meerah and Kheratree, or with astonishment and loathing for the diabolical passions of lust and avarice of which they were the victims.

THE DESERTER.

The army assembled under the orders of the Earl of Moira, for the invasion of the territory of Nepaul, was about to open the campaign, and for that purpose had encamped in a position closely approaching to the borders of the great forest, when, one morning at daylight, the officer in command of the outlying picket, in going his rounds, was surprised by a voice hailing him in English from the opposite bank of a small river, that was passable by a ford which some of his party had been stationed to watch, and shortly afterwards he descried the person of the speaker leisurely pacing across the stream, in the direction of his post. The appearance of the figure which thus presented itself to view was singularly well adapted for keeping up the interest which his first greeting had excited. It was that of a man, apparently about five and thirty, tall, exceedingly well formed and muscular, with a countenance not altogether unpleasing, although its chief expression was that of bold and determined daring, unmixed, however, with any perceptible trait of ferocity. There was a singularity of manner about him, not less striking than his majestic person and the oddity of his dress. His whole exterior was a curious compound of the bandit and the soldier, the outlaw and the regular; a remnant of the European strangely blended with a portion of the Hindoo, -- and a passion for grandeur and outward show displaying itself, in a fantastic overlaying of the costume of the Nepaulese chief with the decorative distinctions of the British officer. On his vest of chain-mail was fastened a pair of epaulets, and the scale-loop and drooping feather of the English staff ornamented his Eastern turban. The other parts of his dress were overspread with an abundance of bullion and braiding, and other military finery, considerably tarnished, -- a ponderous scimitar suspended from a white leather shoulder-belt swung by his side, -- a sash of crimson silk network, much worn and faded, girdled his waist, and the swaggering resolute air with which he advanced was in admirable keeping with the style and condition of his whole equipment. Approaching the officer, with a gesture partaking both of the native salaam and English military salute, he announced himself as an Englishman who, having been many years in the service of the Rajah of Nepaul, had availed himself of the earliest opportunity afforded him by the approach of a British force to withdraw himself, in order to avoid taking part against his countrymen in the hostilities that were about to ensue. The looks and whispers that were interchanged amongst those of the party within hearing of this announcement evidently filled him with alarm; his bearing, however, lost nothing of its firmness, but became more strongly marked with that sense of self-importance which the vanity of common minds derives from the consciousness of producing a sensation, and of a power in the peculiarity of the circumstances by which they are surrounded to awaken a strong interest in their favour.

The officer proceeded with him to head-quarters to report his arrival, and the rumour soon spread throughout the encampment that he was the celebrated Browne, who was reported to have rendered the most important services to the Nepaulese, by organizing their troops upon the model of the Company's Sepoy regiments, and training them in the European discipline and tactics. When questioned on these points he at first denied that his name was Browne, and said he had never belonged to the army, and, though he admitted that he had held a high rank in the Nepaulese forces, he protested that he was not their instructer in the European drill and system of organization. Unfortunately, however, for his veracity in each of these respects, the most satisfactory evidence of his identity with that much talked-of personage was obtained from many persons then in the camp, including more than one of his former comrades, who had passed, in the same tent with him on that very spot, the day previous to his desertion ten years before, as well as several stragglers brought in from the Nepaulese troops, who recognized him as their commander. Thus identified he admitted all; but the services of one so thoroughly acquainted with the affairs of the enemy, so well informed of their plans and dispositions, and so familiar with all their movements, were too important to be thrown away. It was accordingly intimated that a prompt and zealous use and application of such knowledge as he possessed of those matters, to the advantage of the King's and the Company's service, would be the most effectual means, not only of averting the serious consequences to which he must be aware he was liable for having deserted his country's colours, but also of advancing his future interests. With the overture thus made to him, Browne readily closed, and the sequel justified his claim to a favourable consideration of his services.

The following is an outline of his previous history, as sketched by himself, which subsequently transpired.

He was the eldest son of an opulent tradesman in a very extensive line of business, in the city of London; and the supposed delicacy of his constitution when an infant, having drawn towards him an extraordinary degree of care and attention from both his parents, he became their favourite child, and the weak and foolish indulgence of his whims and caprices to which their fondness led them, early laid the foundation of his ruin. The ready compliance with whatever wishes he expressed, by way of stilling his cries and appeasing his petulant humours, soon taught him the method of enforcing a prompt supply of the means of gratifying the most extravagant of his desires; and the increase in the number and extent of his demands upon the pockets, as well as patience, of the tenderly solicitous, but mistaken watchers over his welfare, only kept pace with the ruinous facility with which they were complied with. The spoiled child naturally became a wild and untractable boy. He was quick-witted, and an apt and ready scholar; and the pride in his parts injudiciously manifested by his doating parents, opened to him a new source of influence over them, of which he was by no means slow in availing himself, and at length he became to all intents and purposes entirely master of his own time and conduct. His lessons were neglected or attended, accordingly as the whim took him, or as he was variously impelled, by the desire of surpassing a rival, or the determination to extort any sum which he chose to want, as a premium for a stipulated course of study. As he advanced in age, his passions became most fearfully developed; and at sixteen years old he was already completely beyond control, and his vices were become incorrigible. Vehement and ungovernable in temper, and impatient of contradiction, he had nearly incurred the guilt and penalty of murder, by fiercely hurling a knife at a servant, who hesitated in the performance of some unreasonable command. He was fond of cricket and other athletic sports, in which, as well as in his school exercises he excelled all his competitors; and his friends encouraged him in such pursuits, in the hope that thereby his constitution might be strengthened, and his frame become more vigorous and robust, -- the only one of their expectations in which he did not disappoint them, for nothing could be finer than the growth of his well turned, firmly set and sinewy limbs, as he approached the age of manhood. The numerous engagements to which those amusements led, introduced him to an extensive circle of acquaintance, and enlarged the sphere of action to his vicious propensities. Among the dissolute companions with whom he thus became associated, it is not to be wondered that he speedily met with an introduction to the brothel and the gaming-table. Night after night did he absent himself from home, while his anxious and disconsolate parents watched the weary hours, in vain, for the return of their prodigal son, until the approach of daylight sent them with sickening hearts to their unquiet bed. The harassing effects of the grief, vexation, and disquietude which they underwent, though too plainly visible in the swollen eyes, pallid cheeks, shrunken visages, and mournful looks of the heart-broken pair, were wholly unheeded by the brutalized and unfeeling object of their solicitude. Days together elapsed without his making his appearance in their family circle, and his constant drains upon his father's purse went on increasing to an amount so serious as at length to compel him to a determination to put a stop to them altogether. A period of a whole week past without seeing him, now filled them with apprehensions that became too painful to bear; and servants were despatched in all directions upon the fruitless errand of exploring his haunts, which he had bestowed ample pains and cunning in successfully concealing. At a late hour of the night, however, two of the domestics, who had been vainly scouring various places in search of him, returning towards home, were attracted by a crowd towards the door of a watch-house, and forcing a way through the by-standers, they found the cause of the assemblage to be their young master, borne on the shoulders of half a dozen watchmen, in a state of utter insensibility from intoxication, and his head and face dread, fully swollen and disfigured with cuts and bruises. By explaining who he was, and a liberal application of the golden means, with which they were abundantly supplied against any emergency, they speedily procured his removal to the home from which his profligate conduct had banished comfort. A low fever ensued, which confined him to his bed for several days, during which the anxious parents were unremitting in their attentions to the invalid, who, unworthy profligate as he was, and unfeeling destroyer of their domestic peace, was still the object of their fondest regard. Days and nights successively did they sit by his bed-side, watching with the tenderest solicitude the progress of his recovery, fanning his fevered cheeks, bathing his burning temples with cooling lotions, moistening his parched lips with refreshing liquids, administering to every want almost before the wish could be formed, and answering with tears of affection to every groan or petulant exclamation vented in his impatience of pain. But all their lavished kindness failed to elicit from his obdurate heart the slightest emotion, the faintest manifestation of returning affection. From the inquiries prompted by their anxiety to ascertain each change of symptoms that might satisfy them, as to the actual state of his ailment, he turned away with the most offensive rudeness, and persisted in maintaining a sullen silence. As he advanced towards recovery the spirit of undutifulness seemed to increase within . him, and it appeared to be his study to meet each careful endeavour to promote his comfort with the most repulsive treatment in his power: their caresses he spurned, their expressions of endearment he frowned at, their tears he mocked and scornfully derided, their proffered attentions he rejected with muttered curses at their "troublesome folly," and would accept of no services but at the hands of his hired attendants. His mind seemed thoroughly steeled against every sentiment of humanity, and wholly inaccessible to any touch of feeling. One evening, awaking from a long protracted but unquiet sleep, he lay for some minutes absorbed in a state of silent musing, at the close of which he heaved a deep and long drawn sigh. His fond mother, who had hung in anxious watchfulness over his slumbers, and afterwards sat in breathless observance of his deep abstraction, screened from his view by the half-drawn curtain, unable longer to stifle the yearnings of her maternal bosom, gently exclaimed, "oh! how would thy mother's heart rejoice, my son, could it but indulge the flattering hope that that sigh was indeed thy bosom's answer to the throbs of affection with which it has so long and painfully beat for thee!" A jeer and a contemptuous laugh was the answer to this appeal; and when the anguish of her overcharged bosom, swollen nearly to bursting with agony at this insulting treatment from her unnatural offspring, found relief in sobs and tears, the unfeeling monster added -- "away with this snivelling, and leave me to my fate. The object of that sigh is one far dearer to this bosom than any living thing which this house contains." "Perhaps, then, my son," said the still doating mother, "you have a wife; -- for such a tie, indeed, will often supersede the parents' claim upon a child's affections; -- if it be so, come she whence she may, be she rich or poor, high or lowly home, we will not inquire, the lawful wife of your choice shall here find a home, and your father as well as myself will most joyfully contribute, by every means in our power, to render it comfortable and happy to you both. Speak then, my son, have I guessed rightly?" Gnashing his teeth with the utmost violence of which his jaw was capable, and knitting his brow in the most angry frown, the obdurate young man remained for several minutes mute, and when he broke silence, it was but to grumble a sullen request that he might be left alone. Slowly and reluctantly, with a parting glance of affection, cast in sorrow not in anger, towards the hardened ingrate, the grief-worn matron then quitted the room.

The next morning he arose and dressed himself, and soon after breakfast descended to the parlour where both his parents were sitting, and, addressing himself to his father, said he was in immediate want of one hundred pounds, and, therefore, requested to be furnished with that sum. "It is a large demand," replied the father; "what can you want with so much at once?" "For what purpose it is wanted matters not," returned he; "have it I must, and that presently." "From me," said his father, who had made up his mind to yield no farther to his extravagance, "from me not one shilling more shall you have, without previously informing me of the use to which it is to be applied." "Indeed!" exclaimed the young man, staring with astonishment and foaming with rage, "then, by all that's sacred, come what will, I will seek it elsewhere!" and in an instant burst furiously out of the room. The parents sat mute and pale, and gazing stedfastly on the door through which he had passed, fixed with surprise and terror to their seats like statues. At length the bewildered mother, venting a flood of tears, threw herself at her husband's feet and implored him to give the sum required, to avert the impending ruin of their child. Who shall set bounds to a parent's affections! His son, in spite of all his past misconduct, was still dear to him, and, the money being produced forthwith, servants were despatched in every direction to seek out and bring back the fugitive, but their search was in vain. A week elapsed and no tidings could be procured of the course he had taken. Handbills were posted, offering a large reward for any intelligence concerning him, but not a trace could be discovered of his having been seen by any person, from the moment of his quitting the door of his father's house. Weeks and months passed away leaving still the same uncertainty as to his fate; and at length it was concluded that he had either destroyed himself or perished by accident. The family, in consequence, went into mourning for his supposed loss; and his mother, wasting with grief, took to her bed with illness from which her recovery was considered hopeless. Some time afterwards business took his father to Chatham; and having one day amused himself with a walk on the lines, he proceeded towards fort Pitt, and passing through the barrack-yard he was struck with the appearance of a soldier, then standing as sentinel at the inner gate of the fort, in whose features he observed a resemblance to those of some face with which he was familiar, but of which he could not at the moment perfectly recall the remembrance. Approaching, therefore, in order to obtain a more satisfactory view, his heart sickened within him as he recognized his own son. Gazing for a few moments upon that countenance whose worn cheeks and pallid hue betrayed the ravages of sickness and dissipation, his heart swelled with grief to overflowing, the tears gushed in torrents down his furrowed cheeks, he clasped his hands, sobbed and groaned aloud, and staggering against the sentry-box clung to it for support. The soldier, apparently affected by his emotion, asked in a soothing tone if he was ill, and calling to a comrade who stood at the door of the guard-room, desired him to bring a mug of water directly. The old man, at his desire, seated himself in the sentry-box, and the water being brought was handed to him by the sentry, whom he looked earnestly in the face to assure himself that he was not mistaken. Having rinsed his mouth and swallowed a draught of water, he thanked the sentry for his kindness, and then said: -- "Soldier, perhaps you have an aged father who would be gladdened by the sound of your voice?" The soldier, who stood before him with ordered arms, turned pale and trembled, and sighing deeply, answered in a subdued tone of voice, "I had, indeed, a father, but -- "But what?" said the old man, hastily seizing the hand that was disengaged, and eagerly gazing upon his agitated features. The soldier continued: -- "I abused his fondness, repaid his indulgence with ingratitude, destroyed his peace by my wickedness, and undutifully -- basely -- deserted him in his affliction!" and, as he concluded, he dropped his head upon his bosom and wept bitterly, and the hands of his father were bathed in his scalding tears. The commandant rode up at that instant, and not receiving the accustomed salute due to his rank, called out to the sentry that he would have him flogged for his neglect, and ordering him immediately to be relieved for that purpose, passed on to his own door, and dismounting went in. Scarcely had he time to seat himself in his quarters when a knock at the door was followed by the entrance of his servant, who, presenting a card, said that the gentleman who gave it him requested the favour of a private interview, and he accordingly desired him to be shown in. The moment the old man had taken his seat, he proceeded thus to open the business which had given rise to this visit: -- "Sir, I fear I have, by my inadvertence, brought that poor soldier at the gate into trouble." "That, sir," said the colonel in an angry tone, "is the most worthless fellow in the whole depot." "I am very sorry to hear it, sir," replied the visiter, "but I trust you will not put in execution your threat of flogging him for so trifling an offence." "Trifling, sir!" returned the colonel, "disrespect to his commanding officer, and that, too, from a good-for-nothing fellow, whose whole life is a series of disorderly conduct, and who is constantly violating the established discipline of the service by his irregularities! If he were my own brother, aye, sir, my own brother who had so misconducted himself I would have him punished." "But, sir, said the old man, greatly agitated, "if he were my son and I intreated for him, would you still persist in flogging him?" "No, no," replied the colonel, hastily starting upon his feet, "indeed I could not do that!" "Then, colonel, I assure you I am the unhappy father of that unfortunate young man," said the afflicted old man, and then proceeded to draw a brief sketch of the wild and ungovernable career, and abrupt disappearance of his misguided son, to the attentive commandant, who deeply sympathized with the grief of the sorrowing parent. After a pause of several minutes' duration, the colonel said, "for the sake of the example to the rest of the corps, and in order to strengthen the impression which it is desirable to make upon the mind of the young man himself, I will carry on the proceedings in this case up to the very act of commencing the punishment, when, upon your making your appearance, his pardon shall be yielded to your solicitation." In pursuance of this arrangement, a regimental court-martial was instantly formed for the trial of the prisoner, and in the afternoon the regiment was paraded, when the proceedings of the court were read, and the sentence (of one hundred lashes) approved by the commandant. Browne was then stripped and tied up to the triangle, not a word passing his lips. The colonel turning towards him said, "now, prisoner, if any officer, non-commissioned officer, or soldier, here present, will say a good word in your favour, you shall be pardoned." The culprit raising his head, cast a hurried and anxious glance along the surrounding ranks, but not a movement was there to be seen, not a step to be heard; they all looked inquiringly at each other, but not a man offered to step forward. Thus tacitly condemned, the unhappy young man dropped his head upon his bosom, and wept and sobbed audibly, but spoke not a word. The most death-like silence prevailed throughout the square, all present seeming buried in reflection upon their own thoughts. At length the colonel said: "what! not one comrade willing to speak a single good word in your behalf? Low indeed must you be sunk in vice to have come to that. I fear there is no hope of reclaiming you but by putting the sentence in force. Drummer, go on!" The executioner of military law, to whom the last passage was addressed, had raised himself in the attitude of preparation to inflict the ordered punishment, when the unhappy man once more lifting up his head, thus addressed the commandant: -- "for the sake of my parents, I beseech you, sir, to pardon me; they are respectable; spare them, I pray you, this degradation." "No," said the colonel, "drummer, do your duty." Gasping a heavy sigh, the victim again let fall his head upon his  bosom, and raised up the muscles of his back to receive the first expected ignominious lash, when his father rushed into the square exclaiming, "hold, colonel, hold, I beg of you, and let me speak for him." At the sound of that voice, which he instantly recognised, the astonished delinquent turning his head, with a countenance frightfully distorted by the agony of his contending emotions, cried out "oh! my father!" and instantly fainted. He was, of course, then taken down, and, the regiment having been dismissed he was conducted to the colonel's quarters, and the same evening quitted the depot, in company with his father, who had lodged the sum of money required for the procuring of two substitutes in the place of him who was discharged.

The next morning they arrived in London, where his mother gladly welcomed him as he bent over her sick bed, receiving and returning her caresses of fond endearment. He was the physician of whom she had long stood in need; his presence was the balm, more healing than that of Gilead, for which her heart had yearned; his return was the true restorative for her wounded spirit. The weight of affliction that had pressed her to the earth being thus removed, her mind recovered its former tone, and in a week she revived, as the pale lily overloaded with moisture and bowed beneath the nightly storm, when refreshed by the genial rays of the returning sun, again uprears its drooping head and smiling lends fresh perfume to the passing gale. Contentment sat upon the brow of the father; the son too seemed happy, scarcely stirring from home, but spending most of his time in reading, and much in the social converse of the family circle. Their mourning garb was laid aside, their sombre looks discarded; every face was lighted up with smiles of cheerfulness, and peace appeared to have found in their house a fixed abode. A couple of months had passed thus tranquilly away, when, one day, as they sat at dinner, they heard a knocking at the door, and a servant entering announced that a Mr. Stanley had called and wished to speak with Master Henry. "Stanley, Stanley!" muttered the old gentleman, "I do not know any person of that name." "Who is he, my dear?" inquired his mother. Browne, who, from the first announcement of the name, had sat pale and trembling, said, "John, show Mr. Stanley into the front parlour, and say I will come to him." His father desired that if the gentleman was a friend of his he would ask him to partake, without ceremony, of their family repast; but he vehemently objected, saying that he had no wish for his company. He remained for a full quarter of an hour with the stranger in the front parlour, and when he returned to the dinner table he was exceedingly pale and agitated, and hastily swallowed two or three glasses of wine. "Who is that Mr. Stanley, Henry?" inquired his father, observing his altered appearance. "Do you owe him any money? If so, name the sum and it shall be paid, and let there be no more uneasiness about the matter." "I owe him one hundred pounds," said Browne. "Well, well," replied the father, "finish your dinner and you shall have it." It was in vain however that the dissembler pretended to eat; not a morsel could he swallow; the lie stuck in his throat. That man who had just left him might be regarded as his evil genius. He was one of his early companions, and such was the ascendency which he had acquired over his mind, that the brief interview which they had passed together on this occasion sufficed to enable him, by the vivid description he gave of a party of pleasure in which he had been engaged the day before, with some of their mutual acquaintance whom he was to N meet again that evening, so strongly to revive his ill-suppressed hankering after the scenes of his former dissipation, as to induce him to promise that he would join them, and for that purpose he had falsely avowed the debt of one hundred pounds to Mr. Stanley, intending not to return until the whole of that sum was spent. After dinner he received from his father a check upon his banker for the money, and left him with a promise to return to tea. When tea time arrived he had not returned; supper followed, but he did not appear; midnight came, but brought him not home; and when morning dawned no tidings had yet reached them concerning him. At the end of three days he found his way back, stripped almost naked, his watch being gone with the greater part of his clothes; added to which he was insensible from intoxication, and his haggard appearance was that of a man nearly exhausted by fatigue, anxiety, and dissipation. Joy for his return, however, was the predominant feeling with his family, in spite of the condition in which it presented him; and he was received with open arms, fondly caressed, put to bed, carefully attended, and devoutly and tenderly prayed for. But scarcely had he recovered from the effects of that debauch when he contrived to extract more money from his father, and again left home; and for two years afterwards no account of their darling but irreclaimably profligate son reached his disconsolate and heart-broken parents. At the expiration of that time they learnt that he was in India, having enlisted as a private foot soldier in the East India Company's Bengal European regiment of artillery. His irregular and dissolute habits but ill accorded with the strict observance of the routine of duty exacted from a soldier; he was therefore a most troublesome and unpromising recruit. He was always late at parade, careless and inattentive while on it, disorderly when off it, and drunk whenever he could get any thing to drink. He was, however, acute and intelligent, far beyond the generality of the per. sons about him, and, having a turn for the mechanical arts connected with the branch of service to which he belonged, he was much employed both in the armoury and laboratory, where be was found to conduct himself much more satisfactorily than in the more precise military duties and exercises which, in the regular course, he would have been required constantly to attend. He thus acquired a competent knowledge of the processes, and considerable skill as an artificer, in manufacturing sword blades, bayonets, muskets, and gunlocks, of casting and boring cannon, of making shot moulds and casting shot, of filling cartridges and shells, and of preparing priming and matches, and every description of firework, and, in fine, of almost every operation in our ordnance department. He was, therefore, found to be a man whose services, while orderly and amenable to discipline and control, were peculiarly valuable in India; but his knowledge of this, and his consciousness of superiority in attainments over his comrades, made him proud, and his demeanour towards them became haughty and reserved in consequence. Moreover, when sober, he was of a sullen and disagreeable temper, and when in liquor captious and irritable in the extreme. This involved him in endless quarrels, but as he was remarkably active, strong and athletic, few among them dared to venture to try a fall with him, or to meet him in fight. He therefore became an object of general dislike and ill-will, and was, as much as possible, avoided by every one. Thus his disposition became soured and he plunged into excess at every opportunity, much of his time was spent in confinement, and eventually he incurred the painful and ignominious punishment of flogging. To one who had so little of character to lose, it might be supposed that this would be a matter of no importance beyond the mere bodily suffering which it inflicted; but, wretch as he was, the natural feelings of the man were aroused within him, and his soul was stung to the quick with shame, horror, and indignation, at the thought of the humiliation he had undergone. Then did his memory revert to the days of his childhood, when, yet comparatively innocent, he was the object of a tender mother's love and care, and. of a fond father's pride and affection; the recollection followed of the undutifulness and ingratitude with which he had repaid all their kindness, -- the long account of grief and vexation which he had caused them, closing with the frightful state of doubt and anxiety in which he had left them as to his fate, by his abrupt departure and subsequent silence; and finally his heart sickened at the bitterness of self-reproach, with which he revolved in thought the folly, and wickedness, and degradation of his career of life. He had again recourse to liquor to drown remembrance, by steeping his senses in oblivion; and his conduct became more disorderly than ever.

In this state of discontentment and unhappiness Browne was ordered to join a draft from his regiment attached to a force that was ordered to take the field, for the purpose of repressing and punishing the incursions of the Goorkhas, from the Nepaulese territory upon the adjacent British provinces. The several corps proceeded by various routes to the appointed rendezvous, and during the progress of his detachment the mind of Browne underwent an extraordinary change. The rich and novel scenery traced by their line of march; the picturesque beauties of the landscape, varying at every stage and so altogether different from any thing he had seen before; the splendid foliage and luxuriant growth and diversified appearance of the trees; the changeful character of the country, -- from the parched and arid sandy plain to the rich vegetable mould of the cultivated slopes, the stony surface of the thickly wooded hills, and the bare rocky perpendicular steep of the mountain ghauts, striking no less by the awful sublimity of their majestic forms than by the magnificent grandeur of their elevation; the numerously scattered villages, interspersed with the pleasing shelter of the groves of spreading neam and lofty cassia; topes of the stately mango, and gardens that filled the air with rich odours from a thousand flowering shrubs and blossoming fruit trees, among which were conspicuous the cheerful myrtle and the graceful pomegranate; the antique air of the towns and imposing aspect of the ancient cities through which they passed, with their gorgeous piles of sumptuous palaces, rich mosques, splendid domes, towering pagodas, and lofty minarets; -- the constant succession of such objects, striking by their novelty and pleasing by their diversity, revived the desire for travel and spirit of adventure that had long lain dormant within him. Books of travels, voyages of discovery, and narratives of enterprize in new and unexplored countries were his delight in boyhood; and often had he sighed for the opportunity of witnessing and participating in scenes analogous to those of which the mere description, while reading them, kindled in his bosom a glow of emulative excitement that often transported him beyond himself, until he actually fancied similar incidents to be occurring around him. These ardent aspirations were indeed suppressed, but the spirit of enthusiasm from which they sprung was not extinguished, by the brutalizing nature of the sensual gratification and debasing course of pleasure in which he so long revelled, and its renovation was complete when, the season for the commencement of operations being arrived, and the army placed in the postition it was intended to occupy -- a series of posts in communication with each other, forming a semicircle from Segouly on the south to Bouwanpoor on the east of the Nepaulese frontier -- preparatory to the opening movement of the campaign, the division to which Browne's detachment was annexed encamped on the side of a range of hills looking towards the west, with the great forest in their front. The state of almost total isolation from society to which, when off duty, he was reduced by his extreme unpopularity with his comrades, threw him entirely upon his own resources for relief in the weariness that springs from the want of occupation during the long intervals of a soldier's leisure in a protracted encampment, in such a situation and under such circumstances; and, while gazing on the prospect before him, -- the majestic grandeur of the dark and wide-spreading forest, whose stately trees, fitfully waving their proud tops to the passing breeze in the rich luxuriance of their growth, disclosed an endless variety of beautiful forms and gorgeous colouring, with its sweeping boundary of lofty hills, rising in succession range above range and wooded to the summits, beyond which in the farthest distance, the glittering peaks of the Himalaya chain upreared their venerable heads, capped with eternal snows and mingling with the skies,it was not to be wondered that his native restlessness of disposition and fondness for roaming should prompt the desire to explore a region which his imagination, thus excited, filled with incidents peculiarly attractive to one of his ardent and inconstant temper. He had heard much of the barbaric splendour and capricious munificence of the haughty rulers of those eastern kingdoms, and it struck him as very possible, nay, extremely probable, that his services would be joyfully accepted by the Nepaulese government; for, as a soldier, and still more as an artificer, a mechanic, an armourer, and even as an engineer, with the knowledge he possessed and the experience he had acquired, he felt conscious of the power, among a people so rude and unskilled in all the most ordinary material as well as scientific arrangements of the military art, to exhibit a range of useful talents too obviously important not to find a welcome. He therefore readily conceived a wish to seek his fortunes in that direction, and, such was the puerile facility with which he indulged in the most sanguine expectations as to his success that he almost persuaded himself to the belief that there was nothing too romantic in the adventures of Indian fable to be realized to his advantage. In this frame of mind it was that one evening on parade, while his fancy was elated with the great achievements and brilliant events of the air-spun career which he had passed the afternoon in dreaming for himself, the epithets "troublesome fellow! dirty blackguard! good-for-nothing scoundrel!" and other phrases in a similar strain of compliment, addressed to him by a swaggering stripling of an officer yet in his teens, tingled in his ears, filling him with a passionate indignation which sent the blood rushing to his head with such violence as to cause a momentary dizziness that made him stagger, and he was reported to his captain as being drunk and the dirtiest man on parade, and, in consequence, ordered to go to his tent and not to stir out of it without his special permission, until further orders. That night the conversation among his comrades turned chiefly upon the forest before them, which was described as being the terror of the East; no European, it was said, had ever succeeded in penetrating it, successive attempts which had been made by different detachments of our troops to effect that object had uniformly miscarried, the forces being either worn out by the rugged nature of the country, exhausted by the privations they were forced to undergo, or beaten back by the enemy; and no single adventurer had been known to venture upon the undertaking who had not either been cut off by the inhospitable natives or fallen a prey to the scarcely more ferocious wild animals that inhabited its gloomy recesses. Browne listened attentively to their narratives until, his wearied eyelids closing in sleep, his busy fancy led him through a train of vivid and blood-stirring incidents in a successful endeavour to explore a passage through the densely wooded region and its rocky mountain barrier into the beautiful and fertile valleys beyond. Shortly after daybreak he awoke, and, while his comrades were busily engaged in the bustle of preparation for the morning parade, he arose, and dressing himself took his haversack, which contained his three days' allowance of biscuit, and his canteen, in which was about a pint of arrack, and, with a large clasp knife in his pocket and a stout oaken cudgel in his hand, was about to issue forth from the tent, notwithstanding his captain's orders, when one of the soldiers asked whither he was going. His answer that he was going to try if there was any thing worth having to be found in "that forest," called forth a burst of laughter from the whole party. "That forest, indeed!" said one, "you would as lief be hanged as dare to show your nose within it" "You'll see that soon," answered he, "for before that sun has run half this day's course I shall have dived into the very heart of its thickets." "Hurrah! my bold fellow," said another of his comrades in a jeering tone, "the devil and sixpence go with you, and then you'll not be without money or company." "Good bye!" said a third, "but won't you leave us a lock of your hair at parting?" Eyeing them coolly and with a contemptuous smile, he strode silently out of the tent, and winding his way to the foot of the hill, stole past the picket, glided down a green avenue that led to the wood, then turned to wave his cap as a farewell to his comrades who were still watching him from the tent, and presently afterwards disappeared among the trees.

With his usual recklessness and want of thought he had proceeded for several hours and advanced a considerable distance into the interior of the forest, where the thick and tangled growth of the underwood and long grass became more dense and intricate at every step, ere, pausing to breathe awhile, it occurred to him that he had not yet so much as thought of, much less decided on, any fixed course or settled plan of operations; and, the keenness of his appetite at that moment suggesting a want of breakfast, he looked around for a convenient spot in which he might halt a short time, for the double pur- pose of refreshment and reflection. At length he discovered, on his left, a narrow track trod- den through the grass, and followed it to the entrance of a narrow defile through a part of the wood which, from the brightness of the light at the other end, seemed to lead to some extensive opening. Down this he passed, and arrived at a narrow winding valley, through which a clear and limpid rivulet flowed between banks that, rising with a gentle slope, presented a narrow strip of open land, skirting the wood on each side, covered with rich verdure, interspersed with a variety of beautiful and sweet-smelling flowers, and dotted with clusters of wild fruit trees of various kinds. Picking an ample gathering of the choicest specimens of the latter, and stretching himself beneath the boughs of a luxuriantly spreading ash, with the aid of the store in his haversack and a draught from bis canteen, tempered with the cool water of the bright rushing stream, he made an abundant, delicious and refreshing meal. His repast concluded, he arose and determined on following up the course of the river, as along the margin were perceptible evident traces of the passage of at least occasional human visitants, from which he inferred the probability of its conducting him to some encampment or inhabited spot, on reaching which it was his intention to avow his object and desire to be taken into the service of the Rajah. With this view he advanced cheerfully onward, pursuing against the stream the windings of the valley through a rich and fertile soil, elate with expectations of the approaching realization of his most fanciful visions, the beauty of the scenery through which he was passing lending additional gladness to his spirits, until the increasing fervour of the almost noon-tide heat warned him of the expediency of seeking shelter and repose. A grove of beautiful trees of various species, including some walnut trees, several of the milk tree and paper tree, and a couple of the majestic cassia, that crowned a small hillock, with its deep shade, stood most apropriately inviting, and, selecting it for the purpose, he stretched himself at ease beneath its spreading boughs, and sunk, ere long, into a sound and refreshing sleep. When he awoke, the sun had already declined considerably to the westward, and, having adjusted his cap, canteen and wallet, and seized his trusty staff, Browne was thinking of resuming his march, when his eye glancing across the rivulet that laved the foot of the mound that had been his resting place, caught a glimpse of two grim-looking black bears that lay on the opposite bank, apparently in patient observance of bis proceedings. The unexpected sight wonderfully quickened his motions, and a few minutes sufficed, at the rapid pace with which he advanced, to enable him to reach a bend in the stream, where the wood interposing shut the monsters from his view. The impression of the occurrence, however, was not so speedily effaced; and the remembrance it called forth of the probability of his encountering other animals of a still more formidable description, with which the forest was always described as teeming, gave a turn by no means soothing to his troubled thoughts. He proceeded, in consequence, hastily forward, casting eager glances of inquiry, occasionally, at the closely wooded thickets on either hand, his mind under the influence of the feverish apprehension by which it was at that time swayed, deriving less amusement than it would in other moments have experienced from the gay plumage of the birds, including several varieties of the pheasant and parrot species, that winged their flight from tree to tree, the varying notes of other and smaller tribes of feathered inhabitants perched amid the boughs, and the flocks of wild doves and pigeons of different breeds that wheeled in playful circles above their lofty heads. Arriving at length in a spot where the bed of the river was exceedingly narrowed, and the rising ground on either side covered with forest trees and a thick growth of underwood, sprung within a few yards from its margin, he was startled by the sudden rising of a huge vulture, seemingly disturbed by his approach, from behind a tree at a short distance; and, curiosity leading him to examine the spot, he was horror-struck at finding the bleaching bones of a human skeleton, the flesh of which had, doubtless, been the food of the birds and beasts of prey that roamed the forest. He thought of the bears which had, a few hours before, given such an impetus to his progress, and looking fearfully around he beheld, at about twenty yards onward in the direction of the track which he had been following, a tigress crouching and apparently watching his motions. Starting suddenly several paces backward, he then ran towards an aged oak tree, the branches of which reaching low offered the greatest facility for his ascent, and springing upward, so as to seize the lowest of its huge arms, he quickly succeeded in seating himself aloft in its umbrageous shelter.

The ferocious animal thus disappointed of its expected victim rushed furiously towards the tree with a loud and terrifying cry, and stationing herself at its foot stood looking upwards at the affrighted deserter, grinning and gnashing her frightful tusks, and growling with savage fury and impatience. Browne, in order to increase his assurance of safety from any possible assault of his fierce adversary, shifted his position to the loftiest branch of the tree capable of bearing bis weight; and, thence watching her movements with somewhat of a feeling of satisfaction with his temporary security, he was at length relieved from the anxiety which her presence could not but inspire, by the arrival of her cub, which came frisking towards her with a young fawn in its mouth, when the old one seizing it they both hurried off towards a distant part of the thicket. From the elevated station which he had latterly occupied, Browne, looking out, perceived that the course from which he had been thus unpleasantly diverted led by a short turn to an open glade, apparently of considerable extent, and at no great distance was a hill projecting from the mountain chain, that was but thinly wooded. There he was in hopes of being able to discover the situation of some town or village, and, though it was near sunset, he quickly descended with a view of at once pushing forward in that direction. He had proceeded nearly an hour at a quick pace along an open path that diverged from the river, of which, a large tract of wood intervening, all trace had long since disappeared from his view, when arriving at a fork, formed by the junction of three paths, he paused for a moment to deliberate on the choice of that which he should take. His meditations were abruptly terminated by a terrific roar from the wood in advance on his left, and looking towards that quarter he saw a huge royal tiger spring from the thicket upon a wild hog that, at that moment, was rushing across the path from the opposite side. Various frightful sounds, from different parts of the adjacent woods, apparently answering to the previous roar, filled him with dread, and betaking himself to the nearest tree he climbed with the utmost expedition nearly to its summit. The scene of savage ferocity that was transacting below for some time occupied all his attention: five or six other ferocious animals -- tigers and leopards -- whom the roar and subsequent growling of the murderous beast, with the grunting and outcries of his mangled victim, had drawn to the spot, successively fastened on the prostrate porker, with each of whom his original aggressor had to contest the possession of the carcase, a portion of which ultimately fell to all in turn, the entrails only remaining after its ravenous partitioners, with so much of the mangled flesh, yet quivering with life in its state of dismemberment, as each one could carry off, had all disappeared. In the meantime the sun had set; and as the hour of darkness approached, the fierce , tenants of the forest -- wolves, hyaenas, black bears, and apes of all sizes, besides tigers and leopards, emerging from their retreats in search of food began their prowlings, to cross the various paths in his sight with a frequency that, added to the savage noises that made vocal the woods all around, convinced him of the prudence of resolving to take up his abode where he was for the night. He felt little inclined to sleep, and a sensation of uneasiness came over him which disposed him to melancholy reflections. In this condition of mind the hollow report of a distant gun sounded in bis ear; and, listening attentively, he caught the roll of the drums and the shrill notes of the fifes rendered faint by the distance, and from the direction in which they came he knew them to be the signal for the setting of the watch and the beating of the tattoo (or night-call of the soldiers to quarters), at the station which he had left in the morning. Then followed a train of reflections on his conduct, in which, memory summoning up the remembrance of the past, the frowardness of his boyhood, the ungovernable wildness of his youth, the abandoned profligacy of his career of manhood, his neglect of the advantages that had been placed within his reach, his dissipated squandering in dissolute enjoyments of those resources which might and should have been employed in useful and improving pursuits, his abuse of his parents' indulgence, his ingratitude for their kindness, and his base and unfeeling abandonment of his home, with the cruel uncertainty of his fate in which, by his undutiful silence, they were left even up to that moment, unless indeed the grief, vexation, and anxiety they had endured on his account had carried them down to the grave, -- all were forcibly presented to his view, and his mind was torn by the bitterest remorse. He resolved to shake off the trammels of vice in which be had hitherto suffered himself to remain bound, and, by activity and steady perseverance in the strict observance of all his duties, to retrieve his character and establish for himself a reputation of which his fond parents, if they survived, might yet be proud. But then came the thought of his actual situation. What was he then? A deserter who had broken his arrest and abandoned his country's colours, and thereby forfeited his life to her outraged laws; a lonely fugitive, bewildered amidst the mazes of that fearful forest, and trembling at the perils which beset him on every side! His spirits sunk, his brain turned round, big drops of perspiration trickled from his brow, his knees knocked together, and his whole frame shook convulsively beneath the influence of the mingled dread and remorse that assailed him. The violence of the paroxysm having, after a while, subsided, he half resolved upon instantly endeavouring to trace his way back, and had raised himself from the recumbent position in which he had been reclining among the boughs, preparatory to descending, when the rumbling of a distant explosion sounded in his ear, that was followed by what appeared at first to be a wild and confused shouting, which he presently discovered to proceed from the multitudes of affrighted birds at roost in the vicinity. Again he was moving to execute his scarcely formed design, but a flash of lightning that seemed to envelope the whole tree in a sheet of flame nearly blinded him with the intensity of its brightness, and, stunned by the deafening crash of the loud thunder-peal that instantly followed, he threw himself back again into the resting-place he had so lately occupied, covering his face with his hands. Flash after flash bursting from the dark womb of the thick overhanging clouds blazed through the atmosphere; and clap upon clap of rattling thunder, rolled back in endless repetitions from the innumerable echoes of the wide-spreading forest, resounded through the woods with unceasing roar. Appalled by the awful effect of the storm Browne lay trembling in his lofty bower, when the sudden rush of wind among the tree tops, followed by large drops of pattering rain, warned him of the expediency of seeking a better shelter in the lower region of the tree, which he speedily accomplished. The rain then poured down in torrents, which, by degrees, -- a few straggling drops at first, then an occasional trickling, and at length an unintermitting stream, -- penetrating to his retreat drenched him to the skin. The storm at length ceasing all was quiet around, but, chilled and comfortless, and sick at heart, the forlorn deserter was fast sinking into hopeless despondency when his attention was excited by the appearance of a brilliant light below him, the effect of which, though from its smallness it appeared to be very distant, was uncommonly beautiful. It cheered liim, and, while he was gazing delightedly upon it, it perceptibly approached him, but on nearing the bole of the tree was suddenly extinguished. Looking to the quarter where he had first descried it he presently distinguished another just like it, and then a third, a fourth, and at length a whole swarm, sparkling and glimmering like tiny fireworks at a fairy revel. He then knew them to be fire-flies; and, having resolved upon penetrating the easternmost avenue of the three before him, in hopes of reaching the open tract of which he was in quest when driven, as above related, to take refuge in the sheltering arms of the friendly oak outstretched to receive him, he quickly descended, and wringing the wet from his clothes he took a long piece of mulmul (thin Indian muslin) that had once formed the turban of a fair Mogulanee (seamstress), in remembrance of whom he usually wore it tightly folded round his loins, and gathering a considerable number of those sparkling flutterers, which abounded in that spot, he enclosed them in its folds to light him on his way. The moon had risen, and the stars shone brightly above, but the narrowness of the opening along which he had to proceed, between the thickly entangled woods on each side, rendered their light ineffectual below. Onward, therefore, he went at an extremely rapid pace, waving his glittering bag in the air above his head, -- the strangeness of the appearance he thus presented contributing, in all probability, to his security, by scaring from his path the hunger prowlers of the forest, whose howlings had ceased from the commencement of the storm, and of whose neighbourhood he encountered no token, except an occasional rustling and crackling among the underwood on either hand as he advanced. On gaining a turn that he believed to lead, at no great distance, to the spot he wished to attain, his heart leaped for joy, and, exulting in the expectation of speedily realizing his wishes, he bounded nimbly forward, but ere he had proceeded many minutes in that course he tripped over a fallen limb of a tree that lay across his road, and fell to the ground nearly stunned by the shock. Slowly raising his aching frame he had scarcely gained his feet when a loud snorting, followed by a terrific roar, which he knew to proceed from a tiger, forced his attention to a more alarming evil, seemingly close at hand, and, betaking himself with all speed to the nearest tree, he quickly made his way to the centre of its spreading branches, and determined to make it his resting place till daylight.

Jaded with fatigue, and worn out with the excitement and exertions he had undergone, he soon fell into a profound sleep, from which he awoke just before sunrise perfectly refreshed; and, looking out from his leafy watch-tower, experienced the most exhilarating effects from the scene in which he found himself. The tree in which he was ensconced stood on the east, in the centre of a wide curving avenue that, about a quarter of a mile to the northward, terminated in an extensive opening; before him -- to the westward -- was a tolerably wide plain, well wooded, but so open as to afford a free expanse to the growth of its luxuriant trees, among which were many splendid and gigantic specimens of the saul, sissoo, ironwood, ebony, cassia, paper tree, and milk tree, with here and there a stately oak and graceful ash, and at no great distance in his front he could distinctly hear the run of the stream -- the Sukti -- along the margin of which he had taken his course the day before; behind him the country was densely wooded for two-thirds of the ascent of a chain of mountains that closed in the prospect within a brief space in that direction. That chain -- the Cheriaghautee -- sweeping in an easy curve to the northward and westward, joined the Muckwany range, the tops of which were seen at a distance beyond the opening in the north, and these again united farther westward with the still loftier and bolder rise of the Bechiacori hills, which bounded the view on the right in front. The fresh morning breeze, cooled by the night's rain, was loaded with perfume from myriads of flowers and odorous shrubs; and, as he looked, the fleecy clouds that lay piled above the summits of the distant western mountains sensibly increased in brightness, and presently the loftier peaks of the range glittered like minarets of burnished silver in the first rays of the morning sun, which yet lay hidden from his view behind the eastern hills. A thousand feathered throats bursting into song swelled their glad paeans to hail the rising luminary's approach, and countless flocks of wild doves and wood-pigeons, springing from their nightly covert, wheeled upward in airy circles, cooing their joyful welcome of his reviving glories, and the bright orb of day, majestically and cheeringly uprising from the hill, rent away the veil of thin morning dew that for a moment dimmed the effulgence of his first beams, and smiling shed a flood of golden light on every object round. Combined with the tranquil beauty of the lonely spot, at that cheerful hour, the voice of nature thus harmoniously upraised in a joyful hymn of praise to nature's God for his "all-glorious works," spoke with a benign and touching influence to the heart of Browne, who -- the first time for many a month -- now poured forth his soul in prayer and thanksgiving, fervently invoking aid from above in turning his mind from evil unto good. His spirits now assumed a tone of sober cheerfulness to which he had long been, a stranger, and descending from the tree he advanced lightly forward, and, gaining the opening before-mentioned, he found himself in one of those beautiful and fertile valleys with which that region abounds, formed by a projecting spur from the mountain chain, that declined gradually to the westward, until it met the level of the narrow slip that skirted the bed of the river, which glided round its foot in a gentle stream as pure and bright as native crystal. Passing onward, over the easy slope, he arrived at a second valley, to his English eye still more pleasing than the former, by the air of cultivation which its orchard-like appearance, even in this its wild and natural state, imparted, forcibly reminding him of the richest parts of Surrey, Kent, and Hampshire which he had traversed. At the entrance of this valley from the westward was a wide but not very deep lake, from which flowed to the southward the main stream of the river (Sukti) by whose course up to that point Browne had been chiefly guided in his route; a small rivulet from the northward was lost in it, and the original stream of the Sukti joined it from the eastward, the channel of the latter dividing the valley in the centre from the gorge of the pass through the mountains. Small groups and, here and there, single trees of forest growth were scattered through the valley, but clusters of fruit trees, -- cherries, plums, walnuts, and peaches, the latter, particularly, of delicious quality, -- abounded, growing wild amidst an undergrowth of fragrant shrubs and herbaceous plants, with endless varieties of sweet flowers spangling the luxuriant grass and rendering this a truly delightful natural garden. The rising ground on each side was more plentifully timbered, and the mountains which closed the upper end of the valley, to about three-fourths of their height, were thickly wooded with fine trees, among which were conspicuous large quantities of the sulla pine.

Having bathed in the clear cool water of the river and re-arranged his dress, Browne gathered some of the most luscious of the native products spread in such profusion around him and, stretching himself at his ease under a tree, made a most hearty and wholesome meal. Thus refreshed and full of rest, with mind elate and spirits free, he proceeded on his way, cheered and delighted with the beauty and variety of the natural objects, animated and inanimate, that met his view, and the charming but ever changeful aspect of the country as he advanced. Following up the bed of the river he arrived at length in the narrow gorge of the valley, where it was closely hemmed in by the high ground on either side, thickly covered with tall trees, chiefly saul and sissoo, and the sulla pine. The ground here rose with a more direct ascent on all sides, and at some distance higher was the entrance of the pass -- the Cheriaghautee, or bird passage -- through which the river ran rapidly between two perpendicular rocks not above forty feet asunder, but rising to a height of above two hundred feet, the dark shadow of the impenetrable hanging wood above casting a deep gloom, even at noontide, over the spot. Not far beyond that place he came to a glen of singular character. It was a small open area, nearly circular, which, when he had entered it a few paces, seemed completely enclosed all round by terraces of rocks piled one upon another, and nearly concealed from the eye by the thousands of parasitical plants which, springing forth from the clefts and intertwining in the rank luxuriance of their growth, had nearly covered with their fantastic wreaths the whole surface, except where a curious cascade was formed by a projection from one of the rocks resembling the nave of a broad wheel, the water of which, trickling in many a limpid rill from springs on the summit of the adjoining hill, and uniting again in a natural basin below, was extremely cold. The only passage upward from this glen, -- a narrow broken ravine, affording a bare channel for the river that came leaping and tumbling down its precipitous windings from its not far distant source -- seemed to conduct to increasing difficulty and gloom. He therefore retraced his steps to the valley, and, crossing the bed of the river, passed in a diagonal course successively over three or four of the low ridges projecting from the higher range of the Muckwany hills; then striking to the westward he came to a part of the forest less closely wooded than that which he had traversed the day before, and observing a tolerably well denned track, in which were a few footmarks that seemed to have been very recently trodden, he decided upon continuing his route in that direction. He accordingly followed the track through the wood, proceeding at a steady pace for several hours, without any adventure worth noticing, except the occasional encounter of groups of apes and monkeys of all sizes and of every species, which threw themselves in his way, mowing, chattering, and grinning, and gamboling along his path for a considerable distance, as if desirous either of keeping him company or discovering the object of his invasion of their domains. About an hour before sunset he arrived at an open lawn-like space, crossed by a small running stream of clear water, and cropping a considerable quantity of the wild fruits that grew plentifully on all sides, he seated himself on a bank at the foot of a tree, a short distance from the margin of the brook for the purpose of taking refreshment. His preparations were scarcely completed when a party of tolerably large-sized monkeys, that had been apparently observing his motions, squatted themselves in a semicircle in his front, attentively watching every mouthful that he took and every draught that he swallowed. This visit was not altogether unexpected by him, and therefore had not been overlooked in his arrangements for the repast. Accordingly, nodding to them and addressing them in a familiar and jocular manner, he tossed a peach to one, some walnuts to another, a handful of cherries to a third, and some fragments of biscuit to a fourth, and at the conclusion of his meal distributed what remained of the fruits he had cropped in a general scramble among the whole, company, who testified their exceeding delight and gratification with his liberality by loud and lively chattering and a number of odd and curious antics, and, as soon as they saw him in readiness to set forward, they bounded away into the jungle, and soon disappeared among the branches of the trees into which they sprung with wonderful agility. Browne then resumed his route, but had not advanced to any considerable distance farther west, when the increasing darkness below and the appearance of a straggling wolf or two, and several affrighted animals of the weaker and more defenceless kinds, hurrying to and fro, with an occasional howling in the thicker recesses of the wood, warned him of the expediency of quickly providing himself with quarters for the night. He accordingly made for a tree near at hand, whose lofty stature greatly overtopped the most gigantic of its surrounding neighbours, and ascending into its noble arms leisurely climbed his way nearly to its summit. There embowering himself he watched the closing day's decline, and, under the influence of his day's exertions, was gradually resigning himself to sleep, when an astonishingly loud and continued snorting and grunting arrested his attention. Looking out towards the quarter from which it came, he saw at some distance on his right a shallow muddy pool in the centre of an open glade, in which a huge rhinoceros was rolling himself over and over, and giving vent to the expression of the pleasure which resulted to his feelings from the pastime, in those sounds which had startled Browne from his incipient slumber. As he gazed in surprise at the wallowing brute, he saw some smaller animal run affrightedly across the glade, and immediately a terrific roar ensued, and a huge tiger sprang towards the flying creature, upon which the rhinoceros, quickly gaining his feet, rushed at the savage disturber of his enjoyment, and a furious combat ensued, both disappearing, in the adjacent wood, which for several minutes resounded with the din of their strife, and the concert of savage noises thus commenced continued with little intermission through the night, varying only with the occasional nearer approach of some of the ferocious contributors to the chorus. Browne soon afterwards dropt off into a profound sleep, which lasted until nearly day light, when he was startled from his rest by the report of musketry at no great distance, and a few straggling shots fired after he was awake left no doubt on his mind of some sudden encounter between a detachment of the native soldiery and either a roving gang of robbers or a party of hostile military -- perhaps some of his own regiment sent in pursuit of him! The thought filled him with alarm, and effectually banished sleep from his eyelids.

The day at length dawned and, soon afterwards, a strange noise drawing his attention towards the pool which had been the scene of the terrific contest of the previous night, he beheld three or four large wild hogs rushing fiercely across it, pursued by about a dozen dogs of a fierce and gigantic species peculiar to Nepaul. When the daylight had increased sufficiently to render it no longer difficult nor dangerous to attempt exploring the passages through the wood below, Browne descended from his roosting-place, and pushing forward in the direction from which the sound of the firing had seemed to proceed, he came to a wide clear space, where four or five tracks met, on one side of which he found the yet glowing embers of what had been a large wood fire, and near it an earthen pot, containing the remains of a mess of boiled rice, which he immediately devoured, not dreaming of any danger, though it afterwards occurred to him that to have discovered that it was poisoned should have occasioned little wonder, considering the character of the people by whom it had probably been left there. He found, however, nothing disagreeable in its taste, and, having finished it, he was about to rise when the cracking of three or four muskets discharged in succession rung in his ears, and he felt the wind of the bullets as they whizzed across his face. Before he could raise himself on his feet he was surrounded by several armed men, who knocked him flat on the ground, and kicked and beat him with the butt ends of their pieces and the staves of their spears. As he writhed and roared with pain and vexation they laughed and mocked him with jeering and abusive expressions, and some of them tied his feet together and his hands behind him, and placed a tight bandage over his mouth to prevent his cries from being heard. They then appeared for some minutes to be earnestly debating as to the manner in which they should dispose of him, and during the discussion some of the party amused themselves with keeping up a running commentary of kicks and blows on various parts of his person. At length the conference terminated with a cry of -- "to the Omrah," from a gigantic fierce-looking ruffian, who seemed to have command over the rest. "To the Omrah! to the Omrah!" repeated several voices in succession, and in a moment all clamour was hushed, the prisoner was blindfolded and lifted up from the ground, and found himself swinging in a kind of hammock and borne rapidly forward, the sound of the footsteps of the party that accompanied him denoting that they were going at a full trot pace. After proceeding for several hours, as it appeared to him, in total silence, the hum of voices at a distance told him that they were drawing near to some sort of station of human beings, and he determined to take the earliest opportunity of proving what sort of reception his offer to enter the service of the Rajah would procure for him. The sound increased as they advanced, and at length he could perceive that their progress was reduced to a walking pace, and that, passing through a crowd of people, they made several short turns in their course ere they halted. This, however, they ultimately did, at the same instant letting fall their burthen on the ground, with as little apparent consideration for the consequences of the shock to their fast-bound captive as if he had been merely a bag of rice or grain. In a few minutes, the bandage being removed from his eyes, he perceived that he was in a sort of guard-house, and that a numerous party was squatted around whose features and dress were wholly undistinguishable, and their figures only discernible in shadowy outline, amidst the darkness visible of the place, to which light only found entrance by the door way. When he had lain here some time, a pause that ensued in the babel-like conversation, if it might be so called, of not less than a dozen speakers talking at any one time, gave him an opportunity of addressing himself to the figure nearest to him, whom he requested to furnish him with a draught of water to slake his thirst which was becoming no longer supportable. The fellow thus applied to moved away at once without saying a word, and returning in a few minutes afterwards held a mug to his mouth, saying "here, drink and be comforted." Browne accordingly began to swallow the contents with avidity; but quickly found himself nearly choked by the quantity of cayenne pepper mixed with the water, which seemed to make one continued internal blister from the lips to the stomach; a violent fit of coughing, sneezing, snorting and sputtering ensued, eliciting loud and repeated bursts of laughter from the ruffianly crew. At length, recovering the power of speech, and the obstreperous mirth of bis guardians having subsided, he called out in a loud and indignant lone, "there is not a man -- no, nor any two -- among you who, if I were not bound thus hand and foot, would dare even to look insultingly upon me, much less to play me such vile and cowardly tricks. If there is one man within hearing that is worthy the name of soldier, I claim his protection from treatment so vile and degrading to a brave man." At that moment the leader of the party by whom he had been taken entered the place, attended by a couple of fierce-looking half-naked blacks bearing lighted torches. Having caught the latter part of Browne's appeal as he came in, "what's this?" said he, "untie his feet at least," which was accordingly done; and then, addressing himself to the prisoner in an under-tone of voice, he said, "keep a cool head and a quiet tongue, you will presently be taken before the Omrah, who is a person not to be trifled with; he will not bear to be gainsaid, and is not particularly scrupulous, when angered, in proportioning the punishment he orders to the nature and degree of the offence that may have provoked it." He then passed on to the upper end of the apartment followed by the torch-bearers, who had, in the meantime, lighted a small iron lamp suspended from the ceiling, the feeble rays of which barely served to reveal the motions of such parties as were within a certain distance, while their features still remained undistinguishable. As soon as the torch-bearers had left them, a ruffian, who had sat opposite to where Browne was lying, taking a long piece of split bamboo, one end of which he had some time before inserted among the wood embers that were burning in the fire-pit, stretched it over towards Browne, applying the glowing red part of the ignited end to his nostrils, and saying "the Sahib loogee are fond of snuff." Enraged at the dastardly nature of the act, more than at the pain it caused, though the skin was completely scorched from the end of his nose, Browne started up from his recumbent position and, raising his right foot, struck its sole full upon the chest of his tormentor with his utmost force, which threw the dingy savage flat upon his back, the "violence of his fall causing the ground to shake beneath him. So instantaneous was the whole transaction that the head man had scarcely taken his seat, on a sort of low platform at the other end of the guardroom, when a loud shriek, wrung from the miscreant by his agony of fear at the impending blow, caused him to start up on his feet, and, the moment following the groans of the prostrate wretch, who felt as if his frame was completely disjointed by the shock, resounded through the apartment. Immediately the whole gang rose and, rushing upon Browne, threw him to the ground, and then, with their shoes, commenced pummelling him in the most unmerciful manner from head to foot. Above the clamour of their voices pouring forth curses upon the "white pariar" with their utmost volubility, was heard the voice of their head man calling to them to desist, but in vain, until a deep-toned voice from above called out through a trapdoor in the ceiling, over the small platform before-mentioned, "what's the matter there below? Send up the Feringhee (English) prisoner to the Omrah, directly." The hubbub was stilled at once, and Browne being raised up was immediately conducted to the platform, where, the ends of a thick crooked stick being fastened to his arms, and a rope suspended from above tied to its middle, he was suddenly hoisted up and the trapdoor closed under his feet. The apartment in which he now stood was somewhat lighter, or rather less dark, than the guardroom from which he had ascended; all was silent, and he trembled in every joint, but recollecting that his fate would probably in a great measure depend upon his self-possession, he quickly composed himself and cast a searching look around. The place, however, being lighted only by a few small apertures in a little dome at a considerable height overhead, he could barely discern about a hundred and fifty human arms outstretched, the hands of some holding naked swords and of others formidable spears, and certain indistinct masses which he inferred to be the bodies to which they belonged standing ranged on the three sides of the apartment -- to the right and left, and behind him. After a considerable pause, he heard himself addressed by a gruff voice from a short distance in his front, and, looking earnestly in the direction of the sound, he saw, by the light that fell from above obliquely upon its forehead, the fierce-looking countenance of a Goorkha, with a large pair of whiskers, bushy mustachios, and a long black beard.

"What brought you into our land?" said this grim interrogator.

"The injuries and unjust treatment I met with from my own countrymen and my officers induced me to throw myself upon the hospitality of the Nepaulese."

"The white dog lies!" roared out a voice like hoarse thunder, "he is a spy!"

"Dog of an Englishman!" said the fierce-looking personage who had opened this colloquy, "dare but to utter one word of a lie, and behold" -- 

A smart knock on the floor accompanied this speech, and a thick curtain behind the speaker, parting in the middle, was drawn away to each side of the apartment, disclosing a recess forming an irregular figure of six sides, the widest or base being that on which it joined to the large hall in which Browne was standing, the other five, corresponding with each other in size, projecting outwards. In the two innermost of these compartments were suspended two human skeletons, whose ghastly forms were rendered horribly distinct by the light admitted through the lofty arched windows that, reaching nearly from the floor to the ceiling, opened almost the whole width of each of the three outwardmost compartments. The first momentary feeling of horror caused by this revolting exhibition being over, Browne glanced his eye at the assemblage by which he was surrounded, now brought clearly into view, and never had such a motley group before met his sight. It seemed a gathering of outcasts from every climate and region of Asia and of eastern Africa. Features of every mould, and complexions of every dye were there; and the varieties of costume and equipment were as manifold as the differences in the distinctive traits of each individual in the group, the one thing common to all in the former being an affectation of the military, and in the latter a decided stamp of ruffianism. Head-dresses of every form, and clothes of every cut, with arms and accoutrements of the greatest diversity of make, evinced-the total absence of anything like system in the composition of this band, which constituted the force of the Omrah, or local officer, having the command civil and military of a rural station, comprising several villages, with the portion of territory belonging to each. Browne, having completed his cursory survey of the corps, had just rested his eye on the chief, whose rather corpulent person, covered with a robe of faded crimson velvet, with an ample garniture of tarnished embroidery, reclined on a carpet spread at the top of the ascent of four or five steps from the body of the hall to the screen or curtain before-mentioned, -- when that important personage again addressed him: -- 

"Look! these are the bleached bones of two of your audacious lying countrymen. Attempt to impose on me by falsehood and you instantly find an end like their's." A murmur of approbation and delight ran through the hall at this menace; and the portly chief resumed: -- "Where are your countrymen?"

"I left them," answered Browne, "two days since, encamped around the skirts of this forest."

"And for what purpose are they there encamped?"

"That's more than I can tell."

"Out with his lying tongue! Skin the white dog alive!" vociferated the Omrah, panting and foaming with rage. A score of his myrmidons, prompt to execute his bidding, were instantly advancing to seize their affrighted captive, but were arrested in their movement by his loud command to "hold off!" and then he grumbled out in a lower tone "the Feringhee perhaps will now tell us what his countrymen intend."

"I suppose," answered Browne, "they mean to attack you shortly."

A loud burst of ironical laughter, from the whole assemblage, followed this answer.

"More English carrion for the dogs and vultures of Nepaul," said the grim leader, in a tone of contemptuous sneering.

"Not while they can command the field of battle," said Browne, somewhat piqued for the honor of his country.

"Battle!" said the Omrah, with an air of disdain; "your countrymen are mere novices in battle. With their guns and superior weapons they frighten and overcome the pariars and woman-hearted people of the south; but we will show them some day what fighting is."

Exclamations of approval from all parts of the hall accompanied this speech, while Browne laughed heartily outright.

"The villain mocks us," said a fierce-looking fellow, whose garb and demeanour seemed to denote that he was an officer of some sort under the command of the Omrah; "perhaps he means that he too can fight." And, so saying, he dealt Browne a smart blow with the shaft of a javelin, which he had snatched from one of the people who stood on guard near him.

"That's a brave fellow!" cried Browne, suppressing his rage and forcing a smile; "do you call yourself a warrior and feel not ashamed to give an ignominious blow to one who, though a soldier like yourself, stands here defenceless, bound, a prisoner, surrounded by your own people under arms? You talk of fighting, but if I had you alone in yonder wood, I'd soon show you how an Englishman can fight."

Twenty weapons at once were pointed against him as he finished the sentence, and as many more voices shouted, "kill him! spear him! cut the villain's throat!"

"Let no one touch the Feringhee!" roared out the Omrah. Then, addressing Browne, "come," said he, "you complain of your countrymen having wronged you; will you show our army the way to attack their camp?"

"Never!" answered Browne, "I will render the Rajah every service in my power, except betraying or fighting against my own countrymen!"

"What can you do for the Rajah better than our own people? Are you strong?"

"I should like to try my strength," said Browne firmly, "with the best man here."

The Omrah called for "Tramboo the wrestler," and a prodigious-looking swarthy fellow, almost naked, about six feet and a half in height, with well-formed limbs, strong and muscular as a giant, and about twenty-four years of age, stalked forward from the lower part of the hall to the foot of the raised platform. "Now," resumed the chief, 'will you try a throw with him?" pointing to the sinewy form that had just made its appearance.

"Loose me and let me get at him!" exclaimed Browne with an eagerness that caused the people near him to start and look amazedly at each other. "What!" he continued, "are you afraid to let me loose, -- a single, unarmed stranger, -- amidst so many of you with arms, and with that mountain of a man to contend against me?"

Shamed by this appeal to their supposed fear, a general shout of "no! no! no! let him loose!" broke forth from the whole assemblage.

The Omrah then ordered Tramboo to descend into the court yard, and a pair of folding-doors leading out of the hall on his right hand being thrown open, that swarthy personage passed through them and immediately disappeared. Browne's arms being then unpinioned, he was desired to approach the Omrah, who, leaning over the edge of the platform on which his carpet was spread, said to him: "If you break his back in a fall, I will be your friend;" adding, with a commanding wave of his hand, "away to the court below!" Browne was then conducted, through the doorway and down a broad flight of stone steps on the outside of the building, into a small quadrangular court overlooked by the three great windows of the hall, at which the Omrah and his subordinate officers took their stations to view the struggle, the rest of the band standing on the roofs of the buildings that formed the other three sides of the court yard, with the exception of a spearman in each corner, and an inferior officer under the hall window and another opposite to him. In the centre stood Tramboo, entirely naked except a short wrapper round the loins; and, as Browne, who was stripped to the waist, slowly approached him, he began swinging his long arms about with a sweeping fury like the sails of a windmill. His adversary, however, for some minutes warily avoided his grasp; but at length he seized his left arm, and, pulling him forward with a violent jerk, made an attempt to hug him. Browne quickly stooped to avoid the embrace and, getting between his legs, with a sudden heave threw him a summerset fairly on the broad of his back, the court yard shaking with the violence of the fall, and the discomfited wrestler, unable to rise, lay writhing and groaning, as much with rage as with pain, until a party of his comrades bore him off in a hammock. The victor having resumed his clothing, was reconducted to the hall where the Omrah, again stretched at his ease on his carpet, thus addressed him: -- "That was very well done, but what is there you can do better than our people for the service of the Rajah?"

"Bah!" exclaimed the ferocious subaltern who had before struck the prisoner, "he can lie, and brag and betray: and what can prevent him but cutting out his false tongue? There is more cunning in that ape's eye of his than it is safe to trust. I would have him beaten to death!"

"No! no!" said the Omrah, "the Feringhee must not die yet; he may be of service."

"I hope not to die," said Browne, "until an opportunity has been afforded me of punishing that bully for his brutal insolence.''

"Would you fight him without a weapon?" quickly asked the Omrah.

"I should like no better sport at this moment," coolly answered the prisoner.

"I will pound him to death!" said the individual alluded to, fiercely grinding his teeth, in answer to an inquiring look from the Omrah.

"Then away to the court yard," said that portly official, apparently delighted with the sport, "and make the trial."

The parties were accordingly instantly conducted to the quadrangle -- the theatre of the former struggle -- and there placed opposite to each other, with their backs towards the side walls of the court yard, the Omrah from the centre window looking down upon them both.

The combatants were stripped to the waist and, on the word being given to begin, advanced towards each other. The native -- a gaunt figure upwards of six feet high and of powerful frame, scarcely less athletic but not so unwieldy as the wrestler, who was indeed his brother -- stepping quickly forward made a kick at his adversary's knees, but the latter catching him by the leg pitched him backwards a heavy fall. He then rose and ran furiously at Browne, stooping his head forward to butt him on the breast, ram fashion, but, the latter nimbly stepping aside at the moment when he made his spring, he struck his head violently against the wall and fell to the ground completely stunned. Being raised up by the people in attendance, he after a few seconds felt sufficiently recovered to renew his efforts, adopting alogether a different mode of attack. Foaming at the mouth he went in cautiously at first, then made a rush and struck with his utmost force, with both his hands closed together, a downward blow as with a sledge-hammer. Browne got away in good time and, closing in again before he could recover himself, gave him right and left -- one, two, three -- on the eyes and nose, and sent him to the ground completely stupified and bleeding like a pig. A shout of wonderland approval burst from the surrounding spectators, and the Omrah declared the contest at an end. Several of the band came round him as he was dressing himself and patted him on the back, and by many other signs expressed their gratification at this exhibition of his prowess. The Omrah, also, on his return to the hall commended his agility and skill; and then again adverted to his wish to know in what way he proposed to be of service to the Rajah. Browne then stated that he could teach the troops all the exercises and military movements practised by the forces of his own country.

"Oh!" said the Omrah, "that, indeed, is good. You must be reported to the Soubah," and then arose to retire, saying as he withdrew: -- "let the Feringhee be taken care of."

No sooner had the Omrah quitted the hall, than several fierce-looking fellows, of dark visage, whom he had not before observed, hemmed the prisoner closely about and, raising the trapdoor, quickly lowered him into the gloomy apartment below, where he was seized and thrown on the ground, and bound hand and foot by several ruffians, who were busily employed in bestowing on him a shower of kicks and blows, when the report of several shots fired without caused them to suspend their exertions, and at the sound of a horn presently afterwards they all rushed out and, closing the door, left him in total darkness. For some time after their departure all was still, when Browne, as he lay with his back on the ground and his head with the face turned rather to the right, perceived at some distance and, as he supposed, nearly as high as the roof of the apartment, a small glimmering light that, after remaining a minute or two stationary, gradually descended in a slanting direction until it rested a little above the level of the ground on which he was lying. Presently a soft and pleasing voice in low murmuring accents spoke thus, within a few inches of his face: -- "Brave stranger! countryman of my murdered husband! fear not. Your life is now safe, at least until you reach Catmandoo, unless indeed the treacherous Appa Thappa contrives to make away with you on the journey, which it shall be my care to prevent. It is not unlikely that he may attempt it, either to revenge the affronts you have put upon his two brothers, Tramboo the wrestler and Cuttub the fighter, or to glut his vengeful spite against me for my preference of your countryman, whom those coward brothers murdered twelve moons back in cold blood, and afterwards charged with attempting to communicate with an English military detachment, in preventing which they had been obliged, they said, to kill him and his friend who accompanied him. I must endeavour now to have you better lodged, mean time this will comfort you." He then felt his wrist seized by a small, soft hand, and a flask placed in his grasp, and then heard the sound of a light footstep receding from him, after which the light reascended to where he had first observed it, and then disappeared.

Not less pleased than surprised by this mysterious visit, he quaffed with delight the contents of the flask, which he found to be a most refreshing cordial. In about an hour afterwards, an officer with twelve men, eight of whom carried lighted torches, entered, and casting loose the cords that bound his hands and feet, conducted him up a flight of stone steps, into a long vaulted passage, at the end of which they turned into a corridor leading to a very comfortable apartment, consisting of two rooms, in one of which was a bath and every suitable accompaniment, and in the other a charpoy (bedstead) with bedding after the eastern fashion, and a low table, on which were several trays of refreshments; a number of coloured lamps shed a pleasing light through both rooms. Here he was once more left to himself, and when he had enjoyed the luxury of the bath, he applied himself to the more substantial comforts which the trays contained, and succeeded in making an exceedingly good supper. As he sat afterwards quaffing a bowl of most delicious beverage, such as he had never before tasted, several attendants entered and removed all the trays, but that from which the bowl in question was taken, and the person who appeared to be the director of the rest, with many bows and salaams wished him, in the name of the Omrah, a good night's repose.

The next morning he was conducted to the presence of the Omrah, whom he found reclining on a pile of carpets in a grand saloon; a female figure, veiled and dressed in a loose flowing robe, stood near him, and several of his officers at his feet. He briefly informed Browne, that the lady who stood there was the widow of one of his countrymen, whose skeletons he had seen, that she had brought, the night before, an order from the Rajah for their being placed at her disposal, and she now requested that he (Browne) would perform the ceremony of the funeral, according to the customs of his country. The female then raised her hands, and bowed her head towards him in a posture of entreaty, and he immediately answered that the gratification of doing the last offices of humanity to the remains of his unfortunate countryman would be heightened by the pleasure of complying with the wishes of such a petitioner.

In the course of the day the two skeletons were, under Browne's directions, placed each in a shell made for the occasion, and borne, amidst a numerous train of the inhabitants of the place, a party of boys strewing flowers along the way, to the graves which had been prepared for them in a beautiful grove a short distance from the village. Ida, -- that was the name of the widow, -- followed as mourner, attended by half a dozen young maidens; Browne came after carrying in his hand a prayer-book, which Ida said had belonged to her husband, the title page, on which probably his name had been written, being torn out; and several of the officers, with a party of the soldiers under the command of the Omrah, attending to do honor to the occasion, closed the procession. Having caused the coffins to be lowered into the graves, Browne read the funeral service over them, and then gave directions for their being filled up. Ida, though she wept bitterly as she took the last view of the coffin of her husband, and while the mould was heaped over it, kept herself up, and went through the ceremony of planting a tree over the spot where he was laid, after which the young people, male and female, who were present, brought pebbles from a brook that ran close by the place, and planted them so thickly as completely to cover the little mounds that were raised on each grave; a small stockade was then erected round them both, at the completion of which, the sorrowing widow fainted, and was carried home in a litter brought from the village for the purpose.

Browne never succeeded in ascertaining who were the unfortunate individuals whose bones he thus consigned to earth. All he could gather was, from Ida's calling him Jauny, that her husband's name was John, and his comrade she called Maatan. He believed the former to have been a man named Mulholland, who had belonged to a regiment of British infantry, the number of which he had forgotten, and the latter a soldier named Martin Honey, who deserted from the 24th (British) dragoons in 1808.

Browne who, after the funeral, had been reconducted to the lodging he had occupied the night before, arose at daylight the next morning, and soon afterwards Ida entered his apartment and informed him that she was about to set forth for Muckwanpoor-mari, where the Soubah then was, and that in an hour or two he would be despatched for that place, under an escort. She then earnestly entreated him, whatever might occur, to keep a perfect command over his temper, and whenever he had occasion to address himself to any person, whether the Rajah, the Soubah, the officers, or even the soldiers by whom he was guarded, to speak mildly and, though with firmness, yet without anger. He promised compliance, and pressing his right hand between both hers, which were fair, and soft, and delicately small, with well-shaped fingers, she bade him "farewell!" and then retired.

After he had breakfasted he was conducted to the Omrah to take his leave, and that ceremony having been gone through, and every preparation made for his setting forward immediately, he was lifted into a kind of hammock suspended from a pole, and carried by four men; two other sets of bearers were in attendance, and an officer and twenty men armed, one half with spears, the rest with bows and arrows, and all with short curved swords, formed the escort. When they were completely clear of the village they struck into what served as a road, being a rough, broken, stony track through the forest, along which the natives seemed to pass at a tolerable pace and with perfect facility, but which would have been a most painful and laborious task for European feet; the horses of the country also appeared little embarrassed by its ruggedness, but for any sort of wheels it must have been wholly impracticable. They had not proceeded far when they came to a junction of roads of this description, where they halted; and Cuttub and Tramboo, the former with both his eyes nearly closed and his face much swollen, from the punishment be had received in his boxing match with Browne, joined the party, with half a dozen ruffianly-looking followers, and after they had exchanged a few sentences of conversation with the leader of the escort, the latter, approaching the bearers who carried Browne, uttered a brief command, on which they immediately let him fall to the ground. Cuttub's party then threw themselves upon him and fastened his hands and legs with irons, and placed an iron collar with a long chain round his neck. Cuttub, Tramboo, and the leader of the escort, who was, in fact, their brother Appa Thappa, with cudgels which they had in their hands, belaboured him severely. He could not refrain from wincing and groaning beneath their blows, but remembering the warning of Ida, he carefully restrained himself from giving utterance to any injurious or threatening expression. The soldiers of the escort, while they beheld this treatment of the prisoner, looked at each other with an expression of grief and shame on their countenances, but said not a word. When the worthy trio of brothers were tired of their savage amusement, their obedient followers brought a large net-work basket, into which Browne was placed, his legs being doubled up so as to bring his knees in close contact with his chin, and this machine being slung on a pole, to which the chain of his collar was also fastened, he was lifted by the bearers, and the party again moved on, taking the road which inclined to the northward. They had not proceeded far when Cuttub and Tramboo, and their crew, first bestowing a volley of kicks and buffets on the defenceless prisoner, parted company.

About two hours before sunset they emerged from the forest into a narrow strip of nearly level ground, running along the foot of a chain of mountains of an exceedingly pleasing aspect, their forms being beautiful and their sides well covered with stately woods and cheerful verdure, which the number of small streams that trickled from their lofty sources in the summits of the chain maintained in a state of delightful freshness. A short march along this interesting tract brought them to the entrance of the mountain-pass, where there was a comfortable guard-house built of stone, only five men under arms occupying it at that moment, and there they halted for the night The building was erected on a kind of natural terrace, forming as it were the base of the mountain, to which a flight of eight or ten steps had been cut for an ascent from the level of the plain, and a square court yard in its front was enclosed by a wall, the entrance being by a neat and substantial stone gateway.

Browne, now released from his handcuffs and collar, was allowed to sit on a stone bench on the terrace, within a verandah which extended along the front of the guard-house, to one of the pillars of which he was chained by the leg. Two men being posted as sentinels at the gateway, which was left open, the rest of the party quickly set about the all-important business of foraging and preparing for supper. Within the verge of the forest, at no great distance, stood a pretty-looking village, to which some of the escort proceeded in company with the five men whom they had found at the station, who were armed with match-locks; and shortly afterwards a slight and young-looking figure, rather trimly dressed in the habit of a fakir of the Sanyassie class, with a guitar at his back, presented himself at the gate, and asked the soldiers on duty if he might be permitted to entertain the stranger prisoner with a little music. Glad enough to secure such entertainment on their own account, they at once allowed him to enter the court-yard, but told him he must remain below the terrace. He accordingly approached and, stationing himself immediately under Browne, commenced tuning his instrument, and then sung a pleasing little Hindoostanee air, the purport of the song being an exhortation to the captive to keep up his spirits, and look forward with hope to a speedy change in his condition.

The strain being ended, Browne, who had observed with interest a something in the air and features of the performer strangely resembling some one whom he had recently seen, but could not clearly call to mind, tossed him a rupee, which the fakir picked up and, having returned his acknowledgments in a low salaam and long string of benedictions, proceeded to a stone vase of water at one side of the court yard, to perform some trifling ablutions. At that moment a voice from behind Browne muttered, "so perfectly like! it must be some near relation. By the holy Ganga but he has her very step; the identical swing of the right arm in walking; the hand, the foot, the eye, the chin, the smile, the whole form is hers!" Browne, who, during this apostrophe, had found all difficulty in recognizing the person to whom it alluded removed, turning towards the speaker said, "whose form do you mean?" Appa, for it was he who had so unconsciously soliloquised aloud, frowningly answered, "have you noticed yon priest?" "I have," said Browne. "And do you trace no resemblance in him to one we have left behind us?" -- "No," said Browne, "to whom do you allude?" "Ida!" said the former, apparently nettled. "Ida!" said Browne, with assumed indifference, "it cannot be." "If it were," said the savage, whose countenance was swollen with rage, "I would soon put an end to her pilgrimage; but it must be some of her kindred, and for that he shall not escape some mark of my regard." He had barely finished the sentence when a shot in the forest, at a trifling distance from the station, arrested his attention and, two others being fired in quick succession, he hastily rushed in the direction of the sound, followed by four or five of his party. The sentinels and the whole of the remaining men of the escort, having passed outside of the gate, were gazing with eager curiosity towards the wood; and Browne, availing himself of the circumstance, beckoned the fakir to approach, which the latter did with light and airy step, when the former at once said, "Ida! fly; Appa suspects your disguise and, I know not for what cause, vows to wreak his vengeance on you when he returns."

"Alas!" exclaimed she, "too well I know he will keep his word, if opportunity serves him, in spiteful revenge for my rejection of his odious suit for my hand, and my subsequent attachment to my Jauny. I must, therefore, begone, but will not be far from you." She then passed out of the gate unobserved by the soldiers, and made for a small wooded knoll, separated by an avenue through which ran a shallow stream, from that part of the forest which Appa and his followers had entered. The latter shortly afterwards made their appearance, with the five matchlock men and nearly the whole of the men belonging to the detachment, and entering the court yard they threw down a large deer which they had recently shot. "There," said Appa, who had one of the matchlocks on his shoulder, "we shall feast well to night." A few of the party immediately set about skinning and dressing the deer, the rest betaking themselves to other occupations preparatory to supper. Appa, having' cast a searching look all round, inquired of Browne what had become of the fakir. The latter answered, "as soon as you were gone he hurried away, seeming frightened at the firing."

"Frightened!" said the ruffian, "that indeed is not like Ida; for with the simplicity and tenderness of the lamb she has the heart of a lion. I will after him, however, and if he come within my reach I will try how fast he will run from another shot." He then went forth, and noting the track of the fakir's footsteps in the grass, soon followed it into the thicket, which he had scarcely entered when Browne, who had watched him with painful interest, observed a flash and a smoke, followed by the report of a musket.

In about half an hour the savage Appa returned to the station, his look was sullen and dejected, his step was slow, and his head hung down. Walking up to where Browne was sitting, he looked scowlingly on him for a few seconds, and then said, "I have measured the foot-prints in the sand, on both sides of yonder brook, and they are Ida's, if Ida lives. I have had a shot at the fakir, however, and I seldom miss my aim."

The sound of a horn from the upper part of the pass followed close upon this speech, which caused the monster to start, and most of the party to fly to their arms. Appa then gave orders for the replacing of the collar and the irons on the hands of Browne, and thus chained he was lodged in the dungeon of the guard-house. In less than half an hour, however, the door of his prison was opened and, being led forth, he was placed in the centre of the court-yard between a party of thirty soldiers newly arrived, under the command of two officers whom he had not before seen, and the party commanded by Appa. The newcomers appeared to look upon him with mingled surprise, pity, and indignation. The senior of the officers then said, "Appa Thappa, what is this?"

"He is a dog of an English spy," sulkily answered the ruffian.

"He is unarmed and a stranger, however," replied the officer, "and you and your party might have secured a wild elephant with less savage means than these." He then ordered the irons to be removed and Browne to be left at perfect liberty, except as to passing beyond the walls of the station; and, after supper was over, the men who had formed the escort under Appa's command were directed to quarter themselves in the village.

The next morning Browne, under his new escort, Appa Thappa accompanying them without any of his followers, resumed his march, bis limbs at liberty, his guards perfectly civil, their officers kind and obliging, a horse being provided for him where the road was sufficiently level to enable him to ride without retarding their advance, and the hammock and pole affording an easy conveyance where the ruggedness of the way or the difficulty of the ascent rendered it desirable. Thus carefully attended he arrived about noon at the village of Muckwanpoor-mari, where he was immediately introduced to the Soubah, or commandant of the district.

Mubarick, the Soubah of Muckwanpoor, was a tall, well-formed man, about forty-five years of age, of a grave and commanding carriage, mild and pleasing countenance, and affable demeanour. He was seated, or rather reclining, upon his cushion of state, in the hall of his official residence, enjoying his hookah amidst the discharge of his business, and moved his head in acknowledgment of the bow which Browne made to him on his approach, and then proceeded to question him. In the course of his examination Browne frankly stated that, finding his situation in his corps irksome and uncomfortable, he had deserted from the British encampment near Bouwanpoor, with the intention of offering his services to the Rajah of Nepaul; and that he was wandering in the forest, in search of some of their detachments to which he might present himself, when he was seized by a party of men who handled him very roughly and conveyed him to the Omrah, by whom he had been sent forward. He added that, although the Omrah himself had treated him well, he had experienced much ill usage from some of his officers and the people under their orders. The officer commanding his last escort then reported to the Soubah the manacled condition in which he had found the stranger, at which the worthy commandant expressed his sorrow and indignation, telling Appa that the Rajah should most assuredly be informed of the hospitality which he showed to those who came to offer service and seek protection in their country. Observing the artillery buttons upon Browne's jacket, he pointed to one, and said, "can you cast guns like those; and can you make firelocks, and bayonets, and swords?" Browne answered that he could, and farther that he could train their people in the use of them and in other military exercises after the manner of the British. "That is just what we want," said the Soubah; and then he informed his guest, for as such he appeared to treat him, that he would be required to swear that he would faithfully serve the Rajah with the fullest exercise of his knowledge and ingenuity; that he would not communicate to any individual whatsoever, whether Nepaulese or stranger to Nepaul, except those in authority under the Rajah, any knowledge that he might at any time possess of the approaches, roads, passes, communications, posts, villages, towns, or stations of Nepaul and its territory, or any other matters relating to the service, possessions, or interests of Nepaul; that he would in all things respect the laws, customs, and religion of the country, and neither by word or deed, or even by look, defile any of its temples or women, or' do or offer violence to any of its inhabitants, except in self-defence; and that he would truly, faithfully, and zealously defend the rights and interests of the Rajah and Nepaul against their enemies: -- all this he must swear to do and observe, and pray that, if he proved false to his oath, he might live the life of a pariar dog and die the death of a cowardly traitor. Browne having promised to observe every thing, reserving only an exemption from any act or service of hostility against his own countrymen, the Soubah approved of the exception, which he said increased their confidence in him, and he was accordingly sworn with due formality. He was then permitted to range at liberty within the enclosed precincts of the Soubah's house and gardens, and next morning set forward for Catmandoo, with an escort commanded by Alip, the officer who had before treated him so kindly, Appa Thappa attending more like a prisoner than one holding any rank of command.

On the third day of their journey, in the afternoon, they emerged from the descending pass of the mountains into the valley of Nepaul, at a short distance from its capital Catmandoo. A large white cross, marked on the right hand cliff at the termination of the pass, attracted the notice of Browne and, shortly after they had passed through the gate by which they entered the city, he observed one exactly similar marked on a lonely crumbling tower that stood a few yards back from the road side, and looking steadfastly at it as they approached he had no difficulty in recognising Ida, in the form of a priest, standing above it, and she made him a sign of recognition as he passed. The party proceeded at once to the court yard of the Rajah's palace, and Browne was conducted by Alip to an apartment in an inner court, where persons in attendance, at that officer's desire, furnished "him with every requisite for the bath, and a change of linen, and afterwards with a few cates and some sherbet. Alip, in the meantime, having reported the arrival of the "English deserter" to the Rajah, returned with orders to introduce him at once into his presence, that being the hour of his usual evening sitting in his hall for the despatch of public business. That kind and attentive officer told Browne, in approaching the Rajah to lay aside all fear, for that he was humane and merciful, though just, in the administration of his government; generous to those who served him, and kind and benevolent to all. It was, therefore, with a firm and steady step and carriage erect that he advanced up the hall of audience, led by his friendly counsellor, Alip, to the foot of the throne, where sat the Rajah surrounded by his ministers and principal officers, -- a majestic but benign. looking personage, apparently about two and twenty years of age. On reaching the border of the carpet of state, he stopped and bowed three times in the English fashion, and not ungracefully, in salutation of the prince, who moved his head condescendingly in return. After some questions, the answers to which briefly communicated what had already been reported by the Soubah of Muckwanpoor, the Rajah said to him, "you have, I know, already sworn the required oath."

"Yes!" said the rudely elevated voice of the malignant Appa, who was standing at some distance in the rear and to the left of Browne, "and already has he broken it, by casting his dog's eye upon a fair Nepaulese."

A faint exclamation from a person in the crowd on his right drew the notice of Browne in that direction, where he saw Ida, in her priest's disguise, nearly fainting, supported out of the court by several persons in attendance.

"How is this?" exclaimed the Rajah, in a tone of surprise, and casting an angry look at the accuser.

At a sign from his friend Alip, Browne immediately said, "may it please your highness, if to look with an eye of grateful regard upon a being who rendered me consolation and kind offices, when I was suffering harsh, injurious, and degrading treatment, be an offence against your laws and my oath, I acknowledge myself to have so offended, even before I was sworn. I wish yon savage, who has uttered this charge against me, could urge as fair a plea in excuse for the act, I know not whether authorized by your laws, of shooting at an unoffending and unarmed person, such person too being a Nepaulese woman."

A buzz of astonishment and horror ran round the hall, while the self-betrayed Appa furiously exclaimed, "it was a fakir!"

"How?" said the Rajah, "then you did shoot at an inoffensive person, it seems."

"And that person, may it please your highness," said Browne, "he knew to be a woman."

"Indeed!" said the Rajah in a tone expressive of abhorrence and indignation, "where is she now, and what is her name?"

"Her name," said Browne, "is Ida, and she was in this court but a short time since."

"Ha!" said the Rajah, "bring in that person who fainted just now." Ida was accordingly introduced, attired in the flowing snow-white robe of a priest, with loose sleeves and a large hood drawn forward over her head.

"Say, holy father!" said the Rajah, in a mild and placid tone, "did Appa Thappa fire at you?"

"He did, and wounded me with a ball, through the fleshy part of my shoulder, here," said a sweet and mellow-toned voice, while with her right hand Ida threw back her cowl and pushed off the upper part of her robe from the left shoulder, where the dressing laid upon the wound was apparent. An exclamation of disgust burst from the whole court at the sight.

"Appa Thappa!" said the Rajah, "of your former brutal behaviour to the daughter of one of the best and bravest officers that ever gave a life to the service of Nepaul, and the cause -- in her rejection of your loathsome addresses -- I am fully aware, and would have punished it as it deserved, but for her intercession. I know the strong ground that exists for suspecting you of the murder of her husband; and am well informed of your atrocious ill-usage of this stranger, who came to claim my protection; and it is only in compliance with the wishes of her whom you have so savagely persecuted, that I allow you to leave this place with life. -- Away with him below the Ghauts, and if ever he be found again within three coss of the mountains, let the Omrah of the place hold himself answerable that he immediately die the death of a dog that is caught worrying our sheep. Away, see it done!"

The monster was immediately conveyed away amidst the execrations of the surrounding multitude.

Browne was then sworn before the Rajah, and the next day, having given an exhibition of his ability to perform his promises in respect of improving the arms, organization and discipline of the troops, he was invested with the rank of a Soubah.

The forces of Nepaul, when he first arrived among them, were of a most irregular description. The bands of the several Omrahs were all dissimilar in numbers, both of officers and men, and in style of equipment, -- no two men of the same party being dressed, accoutred, and armed alike. Even the more regular retainers of the Rajah were destitute of any thing like system in their arrangement. They had nothing like a battalion; but consisted of independent companies, mostly dressed in short jackets stuffed with cotton, and quilted to make them ball-proof, with wide drawers, and turbans of all colours and every variety of folding. Their arms were in some instances matchlocks, but chiefly bows and arrows, spears, and swords of their own make, called khoras, which were curved, very broad at the extreme end and narrow at the handle, the cutting edge being inside the curve. The guards were distinguished from the other companies only by having a larger proportion of matchlocks, a greater number of officers, and carrying the grand war-standard, -- a yellow flag, with an embroidered figure of Hounimaun, the monkey deity. They had no regular uniform, some dressing in red, some in blue, and some in green, though all wore white turbans. There was very little of either drill or exercise to teach them to march, or carry or manage their arms, each man contriving to do the best he could; they loaded in the most irregular and clumsy manner, having no cartridges, but using loose powder and running ball. Their discipline too was loose in the extreme, and the officers frequently absented themselves from their companies for indefinite periods without leave or ceremony of any kind. By degrees Browne succeeded in systematizing; this confused militia. He formed them into battalions and companies, and arranged the internal organization of each upon the model of the English East India Company's battalions of sepoys, introducing a similar style of uniform and equipment; and, the men being brave, tractable, acute and capable of sustaining great hardships and fatigue, he soon established a regular system of drill and training, by which they were taught all the parade exercises and manoeuvres then in vogue in the British army. Their arsenal also he greatly benefited by his labours in teaching them to fabricate firelocks, bayonets, and sword-blades, to cast and mount cannon, and, although the country is little favourable for the use of field artillery, he brought them into tolerable skill and practice; but in mounting their forts with serviceable guns, he effected the most beneficial improvement. He was invested with the authority of an inspector general of the troops and military works of Nepaul, and it was on a visit of inspection to the fort of Muckwanpoor, that he obtained the information of immediately approaching hostilities on the part of the British which led to his giving himself up, as described in the outset of this tale, to the officer in command of the nearest post. He had taken care to inform the Rajah, in his despatch from Muckwanpoor, of his intention to do so; and that prince, having always acknowledged the propriety of his refusal to serve against his own country, provided for the safe conduct of Ida to join him, she having become his wife in six months after he commenced his service with the Rajah; and all his moveables and the value of such other property as he had left behind him, were honorably forwarded to him at the same time.

In consideration of the information he was enabled to communicate, he was fully pardoned and even rewarded by his own government, and soon afterwards returned, with his Indian wife and property, to England.

THE END.