CHAPTER V.

"How precious is the memory of those
Who slumber in the tomb; their lightest word
And look is then recalled, and hallowed
As tender relics love had left behind;
Sweet, but sad treasures." -- 

The Fate of Adelaide (L.E.L.)

"L'amour n'a pas de charmes plus puissans que ceux d'une belle en pleurs." -- Causes célèbres.

Our heroine was now permanently and effectually roused from her state of desponding apathy, and to this a restless mood succeeded, which, however it might prepare the way for a healthier tone of mind, was perhaps, at the time, still further from happiness. She ceased not to contemplate her situation under ever) possible aspect; she saw that there was much to be done, much to be endured, -- and she was not for a moment easy unless grappling, mentally, with some of her threatened difficulties. But while she framed a thousand chimerical projects for protecting herself and her infant against the dreaded attacks of poverty, and pictured to herself new homes, now in a town, now in some secluded wild, suited to every gradation on the scale of "small incomes;" she never wavered in her determination to return to England at the earliest possible opportunity; and this resolve was confirmed rather than shaken by the tenor of Dr. Beverley's arguments. Until Mr. Fielding should return, however, Rose felt that she could take no step of importance; but, in the interval, determined to examine as much as possible into her affairs, and, even at the eleventh hour, to begin the practice of a rigid economy. Oh, there were so many things she could do without I She had not been used to them in her early days, why should she have more indulgences now- She proceeded to note down in her memorandum book, as they arose to her mind, a long catalogue of articles which she thought either to relinquish altogether, or in part. Many of them were luxuries which she had, in thoughtless indolence, continued to use from the period of her illness, -- or because Frank, in his fond indulgence, had supplied her with them. She recalled to her recollection the frugal table and simple furniture of her dear home of Woodlee; then glanced round, with a feeling almost of self-reproach, upon the numerous elegancies of her present drawing-room (a nomenclature which in her girlhood she had adjudged to belong only to the parlours of the wealthy and the great). And could she then cheerfully renounce all these luxuries, these comforts, and return, without repining, to the simplicity of her early life? Rose confidently answered the internal questioner that she could, -- aye, and if need were, would relinquish even more. It should be her delight to improve, for her child's sake, the sphere she was destined to fill, however humble it might be found. She had a noble motive for exertion -- Frank's child depended upon her! and she internally vowed that body and mind should be alike taxed to their utmost to make the little Lucy what he would have desired to see her.

Thus has struggled -- thus resolved -- many a firm and conscientious woman; but what can they do, poor helpless ones!

"Do! they can economize!" cry those who have never known what it is to have a wish ungratified that money can obtain. It is however most true, -- they can economize; and we would have them do so wherever the need may be, most rigidly, and, above all, consistently: not saving in one thing to spend in another; but taking self-denial to their hearts, till his cold nature is warmed by the long embrace, and they forget to look upon him as a tyrant, or to sigh for things of which he forbids the attainment. They can economize, -- and we would have them do so, for thus they will defer the evil days, -- and thus, at least, they will not have themselves to blame if ruin still ensues. They can economize! But what does even the strictest economy achieve? It cannot despoil money of wings -- it can but pluck out some few feathers, and so retard its flight.

But Rose had all this yet to discover. Full of magnanimous and self-sacrificing resolutions, she almost fancied that economy could make her rich. She could live upon next to nothing, and, as to her child, what expense could she be for some years to come! Except her little shoes and socks, her clothing need not cost a penny; and an infant's food was not worth the naming.

Thus was calculating our inexperienced Rose, little dreaming how wide was the difference between her theory and her practice, when her dinner was brought in.

She helped herself from the first dish that was offered, -- but, intent upon her newly adopted resolutions, she had scarcely tasted of it when she addressed the old Portuguese servant, who acted as a sort of major-domo in her little establishment: -- "Guzman," she said, "do not provide so many things for me another day; I can dine very well on one dish, and I wish to do so."

"On one dish, senhora! Nay you do scarce eat any ting at all. I must tempt your appetite indeed. The senhora's friends say to me, Guzman, you must do that way. You do not like de fish, I perceive, senhora; let me give you some pate, it look ver nice; and here are some Englis pickles I will open for you; or some of dese nice little snipe?"

"Who told you to buy such things, Guzman? I cannot afford it, and I desire you will not provide any one thing more without my permission."

"Do not be angry with your servant, senhora. The doctor, he sent you dese pickles, and more bottles, last week; and Senhor Eberarde he kille de snipe. But you do not eat! Let me open you a fresh bottle of claret, it is ver cooled, and will do you good."

"I must leave off drinking claret," said Rose. "I suppose I shall have another long bill for wine! This will never do, Guzman! And as to a fresh bottle, why do you not bring what you opened yesterday?"

"It is not fit for the senhora to drink on de second day," said Guzman. "Bah! ebery one know that this is so -- and besides, dere is plenty of it, and when that is done, I only say, 'the wine is finished now,' to Senhor Eberard, and he send more directly."

"To Mr. Everard! What do you mean?" He send all de wine since de captain he die," replied the man.

"And why have you not told me this before?"

"At first I did come in alway, and said, 'Dr. Beverley, he send pickle,' or 'he send nice fish, or sweetmeat,' -- or 'Senhor Eberard, he send wine,' or game birds, or some cheese, -- but senhora sat and sighed, and no looked, but said -- 'Ver well, Guzman,' -- till I thought it no use come any more tell the senhora, as she no cared."

"Have these gentlemen sent presents so very often then?" said Rose. "I wish I had known, but indeed I scarcely understood anything that was said to me then. How ungrateful they will think me? But tell me, Guzman, has any other person sent me presents?"

"Oh, yes, sometime. Senhor Stevens sent some little ting once; and Senhora Knightly she sent some ver nice biscuit for ittle missee: but Senhor Eberarde sent someting always, -- and always he questioned me what you could most like -- and if you eat one ting, more come surely next day."

"How extremely kind," murmured Rose; "and I have never yet thanked him, though I have seen him several times. How strange it must appear to him! So Rose drank of the choice claret, and then having sent away the luxurious little repast, she rose, resolved, before taking her customary siesta, to write a note of thanks to her principal purveyor. Her writing table was in the other parlour, which of late had been principally appropriated for the sports of Miss Lucy, when her mother's saddened spirit wearied of her merry prattle; thither she hastened, and much was she surprised on opening the door to find it occupied not only by the child and her Aya, but by the very person whom she was about to address through the medium of her pen.

The little girl was laughing aloud, and Mr. Everard was tossing her in the air, and laughing with her as one quite at home in such sports. He was embarrassed, as gentlemen usually are when detected in similar romps, and hastily put down the child, who, the instant her feet touched the ground, crying out, "Me shew ma-ma!" ran towards her, displaying with her little hands the links of a long gold chain which was wound several times around her neck. "'Ook, ook, ma-ma!" she reiterated, almost breathless with delight.

"Oh! pretty! said Rose, lifting the child and kissing her to cover her confusion and surprise. "They did not tell me that you were here, Mr. Everard."

"'Ook, 'ook, ma-ma!" repeated Lucy, impatient that her treasure attracted so little attention.

"Yes, darling, I see it. Who made you so fine?"

"Pa-pa," said she, pointing to her recent playmate.

"That gentleman is Mr. Everard," said Rose gravely, while a painful flush overspread her cheeks and brow. "Lucy must go and give the chain back to Mr. Everard, or she will break it."

"But it is mine!" cried the little girl, with a face most portentous of an outbreak of tears. "Pa-pa Ebard gave it me for my ve'y own!"

"Oh! no, Lucy. Give it mamma, then; mamma will give it back;" and she tried to disengage the links from her neck as she spoke.

"Me won't!" said the child stoutly.

"Fie! Lucy; you are naughty," said Rose, putting down the little struggler. "Here, Aya, take it from her, and then carry her away."

But without waiting for the execution of this order, Lucy was no sooner again on her feet than she ran back to Mr. Everard, crying out.

"Pa-pa, pa-pa," while the tears rolled down her pretty little angry face.

"Loo atsha babà tink him her papa," said the Aya advancing; "she see captain sahib so littel, she forget quite him."

"Take her away, nurse," said Rose, unable to repress her tears as she saw her little Lucy quickly soothed to good humour in the arms of him whom she still called "papa."

"Yes, it is yours, for your very own," said Mr. Everard; "mamma will let Lucy keep it if she is good; will you not, mamma?"

"Indeed, Mr. Everard, I cannot suffer -- "

"Oh! not a word," interrupted he. "I brought it on purpose for my little friend Lucy, I assure you; you must not make me a promise-breaker; and you cannot, I am sure you cannot, have the heart to disappoint your child; only look at her little eager face."

"But it is too costly a gift. Indeed, sir -- "

"Pooh, pooh! -- a mere trifle, Mrs. Merrival; besides, I have become very fond of your little girl, and I hope -- " He hesitated, and looked confused.

"I tink him love the pretty babà like a papa, as she love him," interposed the Aya: "they great big friends, indeed! Everd sahib come often and play with Missie Lucy."

"Go now, and take her away," said Rose authoritatively.

She was obeyed, and the widow and her visitor remained for some time in a state of silent embarrassment. The eyes of Rose wandered restlessly over the floor, continuing always downcast; for she felt those of Mr. Everard riveted upon her, and almost feared that he was enjoying her confusion, -- a feeling not tending to decrease it. It was well, however, that she had not the courage to look up, for she would have read in his glances such evident admiration, as would have at once deprived her of the power of saying that which she wished to say.

"I am sorry, Mr. Everard," she murmured at length, "that you have been conferring fresh favours upon me through my child, when I already felt oppressed with your many kindnesses. It was only to-day," she continued, speaking very hurriedly, "that I learnt from Guzman, that to you I was indebted for very many luxuries most kindly and profusely furnished. I was about to write you a note of grateful thanks when I found you here, and am ashamed, indeed, that I should not have attended to this before."

"Do not speak of it!" replied Everard. "I am delighted to be of the least use, and hope most sincerely that you will continue to allow me the gratification of adding in such trifles to your comfort."

"I cannot, indeed, do so, Mr. Everard. I am already under far too deep obligations to you and others; but, believe me, the remembrance of these will be among my few agreeable recollections of India. My chief desire now, is to quit it as soon as possible."

"Quit India! Impossible! You cannot dream of taking such a step."

"And why not, Mr. Everard?"

"Oh! you must not, indeed, Mrs. Merrival. I cannot suffer it. I have looked forward to so much pleasant intercourse with you. For what purpose should you return? I heard from poor Merrival himself how you are situated. Your father was unfortunate, -- ere this he no longer lives; I know you have neither brother nor sister; and here, at least, you have your husband's tomb to attach you to the soil, and living friends who will cherish you!"

"I have an aged mother still, sir, and some few friends in England also."

"Oh, your mother shall join you here; I will promise to prevail on her to do so, if you will but listen to my entreaties, and remain."

"I see no object in my doing so, Mr. Everard. This place is now abhorrent to me! I see but one point in the future. All behind and before me is a dreary waste, save for the burning desire I have to weep upon my mother's breast. We are both recent widows, sir, -- the young and the old; -- we will weep together!"

Her voice faltered, and the tears which she had hitherto successfully struggled to restrain now coursed each other rapidly down her cheeks.

Everard was much moved; he rose and paced the apartment restlessly. "Almost you force me even to weep in sympathy with you, most gentle mourner!" he cried, taking her passive hand; "albeit, I thought my philosophy too much of the Stoical school to dispose me to such weakness. But, oh! weep not, lovely Mrs. Merrival; I cannot bear to see it. Or if your tears must flow, suffer that I may have the sweet satisfaction of removing their traces." As he finished the sentence, he gently raised the hand which rested passively upon her knee, and kissed off the large drops which had fallen upon it.

The action at once recalled Rose to herself: she too arose, and suppressing by an effort every evidence of emotion, stood calmly erect, and looked upon her companion. There was nothing of anger or reproach, scarcely even of enquiry, in her gaze; but her whole attitude commanded respect, and Everard fell back instinctively, though scarcely knowing if in the strength of her own sad feelings, she had even noticed his incautious action. At all events, her demeanour repulsed him, and he was for a moment at a loss what next to say.

"It is natural you should weep," resumed he at length. "Your husband was a man of no common worth, and he had no common love for you. It is much to say, but I believe he appreciated you even as you deserve."

"Oh! too well, too well he loved me. My poor, poor Frank!" sobbed Rose, sinking again into her seat.

"He was so single-hearted, so devoted, -- so ardent."

"He was! he was!" echoed Rose, sobbing yet more freely.

"His chief pleasure was in talking of you," continued Everard, drawing for himself a chair very near her own; -- "his chief pleasure was in talking of his fondly loved wife; -- and need I say that in me he had an ever ready listener? Oh! Mrs. Merrival, -- "

He paused, -- and perceiving that Rose had again forgotten all things save her grief, he ventured once more to take her unresisting hand in his.

"Oh, Mrs. Merrival! during that sad voyage, were forged and riveted the links of a friendship which only death could sever -- alas, how soon! -- and the name of his Rose was the spell which secured each link of the chain. Rose!" he felt a gentle movement, as if the hand would be withdrawn, -- "Rose, he repeated, -- his Rose, his own sweet wife!" and the hand continued passive.

The voice was so soft, so soothing, so plaintive, that our mourner felt her spirit calmed, and the burden of her grief relieved by such gentle sympathy. Living as she did in solitude, the tones of pity, and the praises of her husband, were alike pleasing to her in the extreme; and, scarcely conscious who spoke, she leaned back in her chair, while tears trickled slowly from her closed eyelids, and she wished only that the musical voice would proceed.

The beauty of Rose, as I have said in the early part of her history, was of that cast which, though generally seen in smiles, seemed ever most peculiarly attractive when sadness or melancholy lent it a character not properly its own: it appeared then to present a happy union of two different styles of loveliness; -- the drooped eyelid was in itself most beautiful, and Everard fixed on her a look of admiration which he could not restrain, and he would have continued long thus silently to gaze, had he not dreaded lest silence should break the spell in which his words had bound her.

Presently, therefore, he continued in a very low tone:

"When the soft pathetic moonlight fell upon the brow of ocean, lending its own sad serenity to every bosom, he and I would often walk the deck together, and hold long conversations -- ever about you. He praised your beauty to me, and told me of your mental and moral perfections; the first I had known -- the others believed; -- and the theme was scarcely less grateful to himself than me."

Again the fingers that he clasped moved in his, and this time the hand was withdrawn, but very gently. He did not alarm her by seeking to detain it, but continued in a still lower and more thrilling tone:

"And sometimes he would turn to me with a look impressed, if I may so speak, with happy awe, and tell me that he heard your voice float by upon the air, calling upon his name."

"Dear, dear Frank!" exclaimed Rose, bursting afresh into tears.

Everard had disturbed her without wishing it; he paused a moment in embarrassment, and then, as in soliloquy, he said:

"If he had ever heard you call upon his name in tones such as those, I marvel not that they should haunt his ear! Merrival was indeed a happy man!"

"Leave me, leave me!" said Rose; "I cannot bear more now, Mr. Everard."

"I have pained where I wished to soothe!" cried he, in a tone of deep compunction.

"Oh, no! you have soothed; -- to hear his name from so true a friend is very, very pleasant, -- but I cannot bear more now; oh, leave me, Mr. Everard!"

She gave him her hand, -- he took it tenderly.

"May I, then, return to-morrow? will you see me?"

"Oh, yes!" she replied in the same tone of emotion. He pressed her hand again between his own, and left her.

Rose flung herself on the sofa and wept without restraint; indulging freely in thoughts of her bereavement, -- of the tenderness of her Frank's affection, -- of the misery of life without him: but gradually her spirit became calmed; the duty of resignation to the Heavenly will returned upon her memory, and first stilled to peace, then strengthened to new exertion, her troubled mind.

When Everard returned next day, she met him with a gentle smile. His manner was soft, and almost affectionate, -- and both felt that the interview of the previous day had established a feeling of intimacy which was to both agreeable.

Rose began an apology for dismissing him so abruptly on the previous day, but he stopped her, saying, -- 

"We will not dwell on mournful things this morning; our friend is in our thoughts, but such discourse too much excites your feelings, and I must better choose my time to resume it: if you will suffer me to continue my visits to the widow of my friend in her affliction, we shall find many opportunities of conversing on a subject so interesting."

She felt him both kind and judicious, but vainly attempted to reply. He then led the conversation to other topics; and so well were they selected, and with so much tact treated, that she listened with pleased attention; and though her own remarks were brief, they were sufficient to lead him on, by convincing him that her understanding was more vigorous, and her mind much more cultivated than from her sphere of life he had expected.

When he took leave. Rose found to her surprise, that two hours had passed, and, to her still greater surprise, that for some moments she had been led into forgetfulness of herself and her desolate situation.

She felt that this was almost doing a wrong to Frank's memory; but as each day brought her the same visitor, she learnt to feel grateful for the temporary alleviation he gave to all her sufferings and cares; and the rather, because she found, with some concern, that the visits of the benevolent Dr. Beverley were now entirely discontinued: she had received one brief note of enquiry as to her health from his sister, -- but, otherwise, Mr. Everard seemed the only one among her friends and acquaintances, by whom, at this period, she was not utterly neglected and forsaken.

At length, after many days of uneasy suspense, she learned that Mr. Fielding had returned to Calcutta. She hastened to request an interview with him; -- he came, and Mr. Everard was for the first time denied admittance.

CHAPTER VI.

"I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear, And weep the more because I weep in vain." -- Gray.

Mr. Fielding was a "man of business." This phrase, -- denoting a quality honourable in itself, valuable always, and invaluable when in conjunction with a feeling heart and accomplished mind, -- when it is the only one used to describe an individual, presents the picture of one whose industry has a narrow and selfish aim, whose justice disclaims union with mercy, and in whose breast every softer emotion is weighed in the balance against gold, and found wanting. Such a man was Mr. Fielding, or such, at least, he appeared to Rose, after this unpleasant interview.

He entered, and, bowing gravely, approached and shook her hand; then depositing his heavy person in an easy chair, with a very emphatic sigh, and a pompous solemnity of tone, began his address.

"This is a grievous calamity, Mrs. Merrival! Our good friend has been cut off in the flower of his days, and left you very young in widowhood!"

Rose bowed her assent to truths so well known and felt, and Mr. Fielding proceeded to the second part of his exordium.

"However, madam, these things are of daily occurrence in this unhappy world, and it is our duty, -- the duty of us all, Mrs. Merrival, -- to bear them with resignation: Ahem! -- When died our esteemed friend?"

Rose replied to this question, and he continued in the same studiously solemn tone.

"Ah! so I believe. Did he suffer much, madam?"

To this also, with a faltering voice, she replied: and then Mr. Fielding, thinking that he had said enough to prove his sympathy and compassion for her misfortunes, in an altered voice, but with the same profound gravity of mien, said, -- 

"You sent for me, I believe, ma'am, upon business?" and drawing his armchair to the table, he took some papers from his pocket, and looking fixedly at her, awaited the opening of her wishes.

"I have been very anxious for your arrival, Mr. Fielding," said Rose, hesitatingly. "I wished to consult you about my returning as soon as possible to England."

"It is undoubtedly the wisest step you can take," replied the man of business. "Mr. Merrival cannot, I fancy, have made much; and this is an expensive city for you to live in."

"It is, indeed," said Rose. "The voyage will be expensive, too: I fear there will be very little left for my poor child and me, when my bills here are paid."

"Bills, ma'am! I am surprised that, in your situation, you should have ventured to contract debts!"

"I have not been able to attend to these things lately," said Rose humbly; "but I trust there have been no extravagancies."

"Not able to attend, madam! -- nothing, nothing upon earth ought to interfere with attention to matters of business! However, -- these bills, I suppose, cannot be anything very serious! What means have you of meeting them?"

"That is what I wish to learn from you, Mr. Fielding. I suppose there cannot now be much left in your hands? But I trust it will prove sufficient. These bills, I believe," handing them to him, "amount to about seventy pounds. They are chiefly, you will see, for the most mournful purposes."

"Seventy-two pounds ten, madam," said Fielding, rapidly glancing at the amount of each. "Seventy-two pounds ten; and there are precisely thirty pounds in my books to the credit of Francis Merrival. However, the deceased must have had some other resources. What money have you in the house?"

Her own purse was exhausted. In her husband's desk, which she had hitherto shrunk from opening, was found twenty-five pounds in gold. There might be a trifle in a London banker's hands, but she could not be certain of this, and knew of no other resources, but the arrears due from the company.

"This is a poor prospect, certainly, ma'am," said Fielding; "however, you can do nothing here. There is nothing for it, but to get you back to your friends; and how that is to be managed, it is not easy to say."

"My poor child," cried Rose, bursting into tears; "what is to become of us?"

"It is useless to cry, madam," remarked Fielding, with still some touch of pity in his tone. "Tears never yet mended a man's fortunes, and I do not see that they can much help a woman's, -- they would not, at least, if all men were of my stamp," he added, in an under tone. "But supposing that we get you safe to England, -- and I think it may be done, -- you have friends there, I suppose, who will do something for you?"

"Alas!" cried Rose; "my poor father is spared at least from this! -- It would have broken his heart a second time! My fortune, the savings of his years of industry, is all lost, Mr. Fielding; and oh! worse still, his life also! All -- all is wretchedness and desolation.""

"This is unfortunate indeed," cried her companion. "Why then, madam, after living in this comfortable style, and keeping genteel society here, I suppose you are, to speak plainly, reduced to indigence? You have nothing in the world!"

"Nothing -- nothing in the world!" echoed poor Rose, shaking her head most mournfully.

"Well, the prospect is sad enough, I must own; and I confess I am surprised at it. I had always judged from your manners and appearance, madam, and from his own conversation and style of living, that Merrival was a superior sort of man."

"Superior!" echoed Rose again. "Oh! he was indeed superior; never, never, can I find his like on earth! -- So frank, so generous, so kind." She clasped her hands together, and cast her fine eyes upwards, streaming with unconscious tears. -- "Superior! yes, he was in every way superior! Who knew him, and did not love and honour him? So courageous, so firm, even from a boy! -- So gentle, so tender, so trusting! Frank, Frank, look now upon me; look down from thy exalted state upon the wife, the child, you loved so well! Without you, Frank, we cannot live, -- my heart and home are desolate!"

In the high enthusiasm of the moment, Rose had forgotten the presence of him whose word suggested the train of feelings. But now, as she sank sobbing into her chair again, her eye met his, coldly and inquiringly looking upon her, as though he would have asked what all this had to do with the business in hand; and crimsoning with the shame of her weakness, in having exposed her feelings to the unfeeling, she stifled all, save one deep-drawn sigh, and burying her face in her handkerchief, awaited till the succeeding silence was broken by Fielding's voice.

"When I said superior," he coldly remarked, "I meant superior in station. I did not doubt that he was a husband to regret; but I had thought he must be of a pretty good family; that he must have some independent fortune. In short, I never supposed that you could have been brought to a strait like this."

"Nor he, nor I, nor any could have thought it, Mr. Fielding," returned Rose calmly; "but that is not the question now. Fortune, indeed, he had not; but we both have family, and as I told you, sir, I had expectations. Alas! misfortune has taken every form at once. My father! -- my father! is this the end of all thy fond aspirings? Where now are thy proud hopes that thy child would one day take her place among the haughty kindred who despised thy low estate? Oh, earthly pride, what is it? Thou hast toiled hard, and lived hard for me; and lo! how one hour has swept the fruits of all thy toil away! But this I can endure. Oh, that cruel death had passed us by! -- and every other grief that could befal us, had then been almost unfelt! But peace -- peace, rebellious soul! it is the will of God."

"Yes," said Fielding; "and besides that, Mrs. Merrival, it is only wasting time to bemoan so bitterly what cannot now, at any rate, be helped. I am very sorry for you indeed, ma'am; but I see little use in saying so for ever. The question is, what is best to be done?"

"I beg your pardon, sir, for so long detaining you," replied Rose, again calmed. "I wish, indeed, to know what is to be done. When will the next ship sail for England, Mr. Fielding?"

"That I will make it my business to inquire about. But the chief question is, how are you to raise the necessary funds? You spoke of kinsfolk in England; do. you expect they will do anything for you when you arrive?"

"I will never ask them -- never!" said Rose firmly.

"Oh, as you please, madam; I have nothing to do with that. My affair is only to help you away from Calcutta. We must sell your furniture and anything you have, to clear your debts, and if you are still short for your passage-money, I suppose we must raise a subscription among your friends here."

"A subscription?" echoed Rose.

"I shall be happy to contribute my mite," continued Fielding; "and no doubt, Dr. Beverley -- "

"Not for the world; not for the world!" interrupted Rose, with energy. "He has already declined, most generously, all remuneration for his attendance; I would press it upon him still, if I knew how; but not for my life would I ask another favour from him."

"Calmly -- calmly, madam! It is unfortunate that nothing of my advice seems to please you; but if you have devised any better way of getting through your difficulties, pray say so: I am all attention."

"Indeed, I cannot, Mr. Fielding. I beg your pardon; but I feel that I am too much excited this morning. We must have the sale at any rate, I suppose. Had we not better wait, and see what that produces? Can you return to-morrow I -- can you spare the time?" And she gave him her hand with a sweet smile.

The sweet smile softened even the "man of business;" he ceased to look offended, and promised to return on the morrow to see what was worth selling.

"The sooner that is done the better," he added; "for, after all, some other means may be required."

Rose bowed her assent, and the next moment was left alone.

With her reflections at this time, I need not detain my readers; but Rose had little sleep that night. She was forced to examine more closely the features of poverty than she had before done; she had thought that she could embrace his cold form with a smile; but upon a closer view, she found a hundred repellant and humiliating ceremonials that must result from the union. She had knowTi that poverty was stern; but she feared now lest his perpetual frowns should daunt her courage, and prevent her from subduing him with patient cheerfulness, and ingenious wiles. Hitherto, her grief for the loss of her dear partner had swallowed up all other emotions; now she began to feel the pressure also of the trials resulting from that loss. The restless desire to fly from this land of grief, became more and more ardent; but still she felt that she was seeking to plunge into a sea of uncertainty. Her fond mother's embrace was the sole point on which her spirit could find repose.

Day returned: she arose from her sleepless pillow, and with her child in her arms wandered about the house, gazing sadly and dreamily upon every object, until she felt exhausted, and again sought rest upon her couch.

At length, the appointed hour arrived, and with it Mr. Fielding.

"I hope you are well, madam? Pale, I see; but it is such hot weather."

"It is very warm, indeed."

"You will excuse me beginning at once, ma'am; I have not much time to spare to-day. I have brought a person with me who can make an inventory of the furniture. But I think we will not go to the expense of catalogues. Indeed we shall not have time."

"Have you learnt when a ship sails, Mr. Fielding?"

"Next Tuesday week; the 'London Belle,' an excellent ship. So we will have the sale next Monday, and that will give us time to see what must be done: for, to tell you the truth, I do not expect your things to fetch much. It is a bad season for a sale. However, you must let all your friends know of it, and that sort of thing. And now, ma'am, if you please, we will look over the house."

The man in waiting was summoned, and Rose, with a heavy heart, accompanied them from room to room.

As they were leaving the parlour, where little Lucy was at her infant sports, Everard entered the house.

"I see you are engaged," said he, glancing at the party, as he shook hands with Rose. "Hope you are well, Mr. Fielding: I will wait here till you are at leisure, Mrs. Merrival; my friend Lucy will be glad to see me."

"Mr. Everard seems a great friend of yours?" said Fielding, in a tone between question and remark.

"He was a friend of my husband," replied Rose.

"I suppose so; -- he is a clever fellow, and very rich, I believe. Pleasant enough too, I think, -- but it is a pity he has such odd notions about religion and those things."

"Has he?" asked Rose.

"Yes, so I hear at least. However, what does that signify? It matters little what a man thinks, to my mind, so that his actions are prudent for himself, and hurt none other."

"I cannot say that I agree with you at all," Rose replied. "But I have never perceived anything very strange in his opinions."

"May be not, ma'am. I have nothing to do with his opinions, I am sure -- nor you either, as I suppose. But I think we have done now; you may go, Masserwanjee. It is warm work this, ma'am; will you excuse me asking for some wine?"

"Certainly. I beg your pardon for not thinking of it." The order was given, and Guzman soon appeared with the wine.

"Capital claret this! superb? Why, Mrs. Merrival, you are an excellent judge, -- or your husband, perhaps?"

"It was a present from a friend."

"Ha, I thought it was finer wine than you should have bought, considering circumstances; but presents are always cheap, unless, like these Indian fools, we think return necessary. Excellent wine indeed; -- a friend worth having!"

"It was from Mr. Everard."

"Ha, indeed! One of the most noted judges of wine in Calcutta. Have you much of it? But of course not; -- however, I will take whatever you have at a fair price. What are those boxes and cases in the corner there? We have not noted them."

"They are nautical instruments; they were gifts from a most kind friend -- General Mortimer."

"Oh, I have heard Merrival speak of him. Well, they should be worth something, though not the most saleable of articles. Let us see -- "

"They were presents so kindly given! I cannot bear that they should be sold."

"Why, ma'am, what use can they be of to you?" exclaimed Fielding, with a contemptuous laugh.

"Nothing could have induced Frank to part with them, I am sure. Oh, Mr. Fielding, they recall to me the happiest period of my existence! I have no pleasures now save in memory. Let me, at least, keep one of them?"

"Oh, as you please, ma'am; you can do as you please of course; -- but fine feelings will never fill the purse! However, now I think of it, there should be poor Merrival's watch, and things of that sort."

"His watch! oh, no!" cried Rose, shrinking. "It was my poor father's gift on our marriage! Oh, no, no, I cannot indeed part with it! Mine may go, Mr. Fielding; it is worth less I know, but I cannot part with the other."

"As you please about that too, ma'am. I suppose you will like to keep a watch -- while you can -- and of course you can please yourself as to which of them you reserve: -- but for that other trash, pointing contemptuously to the boxes in the corner, it is absurd! You will need all the money you can scrape together, ma'am, I can tell you; so if you take my advice, you will bring everything to the hammer that can fetch a sixpence. You will have to pay your servants' arrears, and send them away before Monday, ma'am, -- and then what do you think of doing yourself until the ship sails?"

"I! -- I have not thought of it. Indeed I cannot tell, sir."

"Why, ma'am, you will have to go to some friend for the last week, that is the only way. Dr. Beverley has shewn himself very kind, -- I dare say he and his sister -- "

"Oh, no, no; it is impossible! I cannot go there indeed, Mr. Fielding!"

"Well, ma'am, you should know who are your friends better than I?"

"I cannot beg for hospitality from any one! Cannot I have one bed left here for myself and child, -- I shall need scarce anything else; I can do with but one servant. Cannot it be managed?"

"Why, ma'am, it might; -- but I cannot see the necessity of that either. Will you come to us? Mrs. Fielding will be very happy, I am sure; -- by-the-bye, she would have called upon you, but she is not strong enough for much exertion. You and Miss Lucy will be welcome at our house for the last week, Mrs. Merrival."

"I am obliged to you, and I believe I must accept your offer," said Rose; and was proceeding to add something that might make the acceptance sound more grateful, but Fielding continued: -- 

"Talking of Miss Lucy, by the way reminds me again of the trinkets; -- you have some, no doubt? Such baubles can be of no use to you now, Mrs. Merrival, if, indeed, you can call them of use at any time; and I suppose you have too much sense to want to keep them to look at, while you and your child want bread?"

"I will bring what few I have," said Rose. She did so.

"Ha, not worth much I" muttered Fielding, turning them over in contempt. "However, every little helps. But I saw your baby, madam, just now, with a gold chain around its neck; -- it seemed French, and would here bring nearly as much as all the rest together."

"The chain was given to Lucy the other day -- I shall not let it be sold."

"Absurd! consider, ma'am, what sort of life you are likely to lead! Your rich relations will not let you starve, I dare say; but are you going to bring up a child, that will be kept alive by charity, as I may say, to wear costly trinkets like that I I thought you had been a woman of sense, Mrs. Merrival."

"I shall bring up my child, I hope, sir, with feelings of humility to suit her circumstances," replied Rose proudly (as people indeed very commonly speak of their humility); "but the fewer possessions she will have, poor child, the less I consider myself at liberty to dispose of a trinket which is her's, and will some day serve to remind her of better times."

"The very thing you should study to avoid! Take this advice from a friend, Mrs. Merrival, let all the better times you think of be before you, and you will surely find them; -- but think of those behind you, and you will feel that they hang like mill-stones around your neck, and you will never have better times again. Never tell your child what has been, and she will grow up contented and happy with what is; -- and for your own sake, too, madam, you would do well to part with everything that can remind you of the past. Pshaw! what are mere feelings good for? Money is what you want, ma'am, and you ought -- I say you ought -- madam, to part with everything that can fetch a sixpence."

"You may be right, sir, as a general principle," said Rose coldly; "but I shall not part with Lucy's chain. It would be an affront to Mr. Everard."

"Oh, Mr. Everard gave it her, did he? Really he seems a great friend of yours, this Mr. Everard! He is a bachelor, it is a pity he does not ask you to remain in India!"

"Sir!"

"Oh, I beg you pardon; I meant nothing offensive, Mrs. Merrival. Am I to take a berth for you, then, in the London Belle?"

"Certainly, if you please."

"And I am to tell Mrs. Fielding to expect you the evening before the sale, -- very good! I hope it will turn out well. In the mean time, recollect what I have said about fine feelings, ma'am, -- they are troublesome things, you may depend upon it, -- stifle them at once I Let them and everything but your clothes be got rid of, and sell everything, I repeat, that can bring a sixpence!"

He bowed, -- and was gone.

"Every thing! every thing that can bring a sixpence!" echoed Rose. "Oh, Frank! This dear watch, -- I think I see it now in his hands! that look, -- that quick glance round, as he returned it to his fob! These books were his gift; -- how well I recollect that day! -- the smile, the glad embrace, when he saw my pleasure. Oh, never, never, can I part with ye! Cruel, cruel I part with every thing that is worth a sixpence!"

"It is not necessary -- what are you doing?" said Everard, entering at the moment. "You are weeping, Airs. Merrival; -- what has that man been advising, -- what doing? Tell me, -- will you not?"

Rose rapidly related what had passed, and what steps had been resolved upon; while Everard listened in silence, and with a thoughtful brow. When she ceased, he seated himself on the couch beside her; and taking her hand said very seriously: "I am displeased with you, Mrs. Merrival; I am almost offended. If these were your difficulties, why wait for Mr. Fielding's return I Did you not consider me your friend at least equally" -- a slight expression of scorn quivered on his lip -- "at least, I say, equally with him? Was I unworthy of being consulted?"

"Oh, not unworthy. I am sure of your regard, -- but indeed I could not, Mr. Everard. I wish even now that I had not mentioned these things to you."

"Do not talk in that way, or I shall not think that you believe me to be indeed your friend, -- your husband's friend."

"Oh yes, I do, -- you know I must do so."

"Well then, may I advise, -- may I give counsel, and be listened to, as well as Mr. Fielding?"

"Certainly, -- oh, yes."

"Then I advise that you should not return to England not immediately, I mean," he added, as he read resolve in Rose's speaking eye. "Not in this 'London Belle.' She is a horrid ship, -- most uncomfortable, I assure you. Do not sail in her, -- there will be another in a few weeks more; -- and as to the sale, I am surprised that Mr. Fielding should think of so precipitate a measure. He has enough, I do assure you, -- he has enough in his hands to pay these paltry debts you speak of; -- only ask him the question point blank, the next time you have one of these pleasant interviews, and you will see what he says,"

"But he assured me that he had only thirty pounds left."

"That was only of the sum poor Merrival deposited for your use, when he last sailed; there were other sums paid in. I know the way of these men, -- I do assure you it is so," repeated Everard earnestly. "I do not mean that Fielding is dishonourable, -- far otherwise, I believe; but he wishes to frighten you, to enforce on your mind the necessity of economy henceforward. He is quite right, so far; economy, we all know, is an excellent virtue; but do not be frightened by him, -- things are not so bad as he makes out. On my honour, they are not; it is always the way with these men of business."

"You are very kind," began Rose, with a faint smile.

"Nay," interrupted Everard, "I have said nothing kind that I am aware of. But I see you are tired now, -- worn out with that fellow's prosing. I will therefore leave you to rest, upon one condition."

"What is it?"

"You must let me return this evening. I have not said half that I have to say to you, and you know I did not see yon yesterday. Little Lucy has done her best to amuse me in her mother's stead; -- but -- I may return this evening; may I not?"

Rose consented with a smile; and left alone, she soon fell asleep upon the sofa, being indeed worn out with a troubled mind and previous sleepless night.

Everard, meantime, hastened to the office of Mr. Fielding, and paid into his hands sixty pounds, which he declared he had borrowed from Frank Merrival while in England. He apologised for not having repaid it before; but he was a careless fellow in money matters, and had not any idea that it might be needed, until he had by chance found them taking an inventory of the furniture; in fact, he had not liked to trouble the widow with the matter, and till now had not known who was the proper person to apply to.

Fielding doubted the story; but he did not say so, and had not the least objection to receive the money for Mrs. Merrival, for whose situation, after all, he felt some pity.

"You will oblige me, however, by not mentioning the matter to our friend: I should be sorry to lose her good opinion. And as she has been in some want of the cash, she would feel little obliged to me for having held back all this time from paying a just debt. Say it was some Mr. Black, or White, or Green, or Grey, a passenger with him, that owed or borrowed it; will you, Mr. Fielding?"

"Certainly, sir, if you wish it. You are a kind friend, as well as a just one to Mrs. Merrival," said Fielding, smiling: "you are careful to cheer her in more ways than one. I drank some excellent claret there to-day, which I find was your presentation."

Everard was not quite pleased that this had been mentioned; but he answered drily, "I imported a pipe of it, so there is some need of my friends' assistance to get through it. Since you approve of the wine, you will, perhaps, allow me to send you a few bottles."

"I beg you will not," said Fielding, "or I shall suppose, sir, that you attribute a mean motive to me in speaking of it."

Everard had done so; but he disclaimed it, and sent the wine.

Fielding hoped that Mr. Everard would do him the favour of dining with him the following Tuesday, to meet Mrs. Merrival. "She will be our guest a few days before sailing," he added.

"Why should she sail in such haste?" asked Everard.

"It is her wish," Fielding replied; "and indeed what can she do here I She can only become a burden to her friends."

"Not at all, sir, if you will excuse the contradiction. I happen to know that she has pecuniary resources that you, perhaps, are not acquainted with; and she, poor thing, I need not tell you, knows nothing of business. But Merrival was very communicative with me on the voyage, and made me pretty well acquainted with his affairs. On his death-bed, too, poor fellow, he confided his wife to my guardianship. You, I think, did not see him after his return I -- "

"I did not," returned Fielding; "the suddenness -- "

"It grows late," interrupted Everard; "I must not detain you longer, sir. But, believe me, on pecuniary accounts at least, there is no occasion to hurry Mrs. Merrival away. I have not time to enter into particulars just now, but will see you again some early day. Meantime, do not, I beg, precipitate either this sale or sailing," he added gaily. "It is for her health, the hurry of her mind, that am solicitous."

"She judges for herself, Mr. Everard. I neither have nor assume the right of guardianship. She expressed herself most anxious to return to her mother; and certainly I think the wish very natural."

"Surely, surely; but perhaps now that the pressure of her pecuniary difficulties is removed, she may feel differently. She may prefer waiting at least for the next ship. This seems such cruelly hurrying work for her, poor thing. However, as you say, she of course must judge for herself. But, by-the-bye, since these little embarrassments of her's certainly weighed upon her mind, would it not be well if you wrote her a line, just mentioning the payment of Mr. Brown's or Green's debt to her husband I It would be a relief to her."

"Yes, poor lady! I will do so directly," said Fielding.

"Ha!" exclaimed Everard, as he seated himself in his palanquin to return home; "this, I hope, will do! Time, time, is what I want. It certainly is early yet for wooing a widow who was so devoted to her lord. But she appears so very friendless and destitute, that decorum may be shouldered out of the way by expediency. If she would but remain here for a few months, I should think all safe. I am myself surprised to find how well I love her; more even than I pity! But now for hitting upon some story for Fielding!"

That evening he returned, as he had promised, to Rose. She met him with a brighter smile than he had yet seen on her lip since her days of affliction, and with an unembarrassed tone, which shewed how much she felt him to be her friend, and how little she suspected the mode in which that friendship had been displayed, she said, "I am sorry that I told you my troubles this morning, Mr. Everard, for part of the pity, which I am sure you felt for me, has been wasted. I have had a note from Mr. Fielding, saying that a Captain Green, who was a passenger in the 'Palmetto,' had just repaid sixty pounds which he had borrowed from poor Frank."

Everard gave suitable congratulations. He felt the reward of a secret deed of benevolence in seeing how much relief and pleasure he had given, and he did not pause to inquire whether it was not selfishness rather which had really instigated his conduct. His spirits were exhilirated by the improvement in hers, and he fell into a conversation, more lively, more brilliant, and more varied, than he had yet thought fit to entertain her with. She, too, entered into it with less of apparent effort than her wont; she felt as if one step had been taken backwards from the abyss of gloom into which she had been plunged, -- as if she were in one point less wretched at eventide than in the morning.

At length it grew late, and Everard rose. "I may visit you to-morrow?" he enquired.

"Certainly, if you will. I know not how to thank you," she added, "for so much kindness to the unfortunate. My spirits, I fear, would have sunk indeed without you. But God always raises up some comforter for those whom he afflicts."

"I am thanked fully," said Everard with a smile, "so long as I continue to see that my visits are welcome."

"That, I can assure you, they will be," Rose replied, "while I yet have a house to receive you in; but that will only be for a few days now, you know."

"You do not still think of sailing in that ship?"

"Yes, certainly. Why should I have changed my purpose?"

"Why should you have formed it, rather?" returned Everard. "Mrs. Merrival, you have not fully considered this matter; there are many reasons why you should remain in India, -- it has many advantages; I can see none in your returning to England."

"My mother," began Rose.

"She can join you here, as I have said before," interposed he.

"Impossible! Her age -- the expense, Mr. Everard. You must consider that even if I wished to remain in this country (which I do not), I could probably find no means of support here. In England there are many ways, and I must select one."

Everard looked impatient and dissatisfied.

"I certainly," continued Rose, "reverse your opinion, and can see no inducement for my remaining here, -- many for returning home; and Mr. Fielding quite agreed with me."

"D -- n Fielding!" cried Everard energetically, and spurning the chair from which he had risen with his foot, so as to make it slide along the floor to the opposite side of the room.

Rose started, and looked at his inflamed countenance with surprise.

He instantly apologized, and almost as quickly cooled from his sudden passion: her opposition had chafed him, but he could not show this, and the name of Fielding had suddenly opened the safety valve for the internal fire.

"I have no excuse," he added with a laugh. "except that I dislike that Fielding; and therefore particularly dislike that any advice of his should interfere with mine."

"The resolution was my own," said Rose gently.

"True, true, -- he only thought it a wise one; quite right. -- You did not know," he continued, "that I had so hot a temper; you do not know how very many faults I have: but I had hoped that your influence would have corrected them. I always feel myself better for being with you, Mrs. Merrival. You must not leave India yet, indeed! I say imperatively must not, -- for you would leave a promise unfulfilled."

"What promise?" asked Rose, in some surprise.

"Can you have forgotten? -- A promise made to your husband."

"To my husband?"

"Forgive me! I ought not to hope that you could spare a thought at such a time for me; -- but he charged you to clear my mind from certain metaphysical, or, if you will, religious doubts, -- and you promised to become my instructress."

"I remember, -- I remember it all," murmured Rose: "but how can I, Mr. Everard? You must see that I am quite disqualified for such an office! You are a man of learning, -- you have read, reflected, studied profoundly; and what do I know?"

"Simple facts, -- while I am bewildered between true things and false: Merrival told me that it was so. He tried to clear my mental vision himself; but even on the voyage he always said how much he wished for you to state his arguments. He said you were a better teacher than he."

"Dear Frank!" cried Rose, with starting tears.

"You will not leave me then in darkness?" continued Everard, gently pressing her hand. "You will not leave your promise to your dying husband unfulfilled? -- you will not go in this ship, Mrs. Merrival? -- nor visit Fielding on Monday? We shall need many conversations to skim even the surface of the wide field that Merrival and I discussed. I must confess to you all my errors, all my opinions, and we will find out together what is right and what is wrong, if, indeed, there is a standard that can adjust such subjects. You will be my teacher, will you not?"

He looked at her as he spoke, pleadingly, earnestly, and even tenderly, -- so that a blush sprung to Rose's cheek. She withdrew her hand, and turned silently away.

"You do not answer me," resumed Everard; "but it does not need! I know well that you will not shrink from a promise made in such an hour to him you so dearly loved!"

He had seen that an allusion to that love always reassured Rose, when his manner or his words had been too soft; and, as he expected, she now looked again towards him.

"But my pleading is not over," he said; "I have an engagement to fulfil to Merrival, as well as you: -- I, too, made him a promise in that same hour. I hold such to be very solemn, very sacred; -- you will not raise difficulties in the way of its fulfilment, will you, -- Rose?"

Again her eyes were averted. She felt much agitated as she asked, -- 

"What was the promise?"

"I have not forgotten it, if you have," said Everard slowly and distinctly. "I promised to protect and befriend you."

"You have not forgotten it, indeed," said Rose faintly; "you have been -- almost -- my only friend. I am grateful for it."

"You will not then put an obstacle so formidable in the way of its fulfilment!" cried Everard. "I am sure you will not! -- How am I to protect, how befriend you, if you place between us thousands of miles of tossing billows? Oh, my friend, remain near me! and we can reciprocate those sweet offices which in his parting moments he enjoined to us. The vision of the dying, it is said, is clearer than that of other men! Your husband saw then that your sweet and wise instructions would richly repay my protecting care; that our friendship would become more valuable to both when our intercourse had brought my opinions on the points referred to, into more conformity with yours. Speak to me, Rose!"

"You overstrain the meaning of my husband's words, Mr. Everard! You have already done for me all that he enjoined, -- more than all that he expected from your kindness. You have visited the widow and the fatherless in their affliction. May God bless you for it!"

"I have done nothing that has merit in His eight," said Everard, with emotion. "I have followed only the impulses of my own inclination. To do good, as you might do, simply for the sake of pleasing your God, never enters into my motives. Your look shocked, Mrs. Merrival, -- but I confess it, that you may better understand what you have to do; that you may see that your husband did not enjoin a light task when he entrusted the reformation of his friend's principles to the wife of his bosom."

"Indeed, indeed, Mr. Everard, you expect from me what I cannot perform! Frank meant not this, -- he could not mean it, knowing how unskilled I am!"

"I have already felt something of your influence," said Everard, very gravely; "and from what I have felt, I believe that, skilful or not, your arguments will have much effect on me. You know the book that you most reverence says, that the battle is not always to the strong. The stripling David slew the Philistine giant; and thus, if you really think your notions of religion of such paramount importance and such unquestionable super-excellence, as I have heard that you do, you will feel it an imperative duty, to endeavour at least, to make a convert of one who professes himself willing to be convinced by your reasonings if he can."

"I am slow of understanding, -- I will think of what you have said," replied Rose, passing her hand across her brow.

"Ah, I have wearied you, I see. Forgive me, dear Mrs. Merrival, if I have pleaded my cause too earnestly, -- but your resolution is near my heart. Ah, stay! -- stay in Calcutta, and complete the conquest of my heterodox opinions, if such they be, which your husband first began! Do you not feel it sweet to be joined with him in such a work? Oh, stay!"

He pressed her hand respectfully to his lips, and begging her to seek repose at once, he left her.

CHAPTER VII.

"Oh, let me live my own, and die so too;
To live and die is all I have to do." -- Papers Epistles.

Rose was much excited with the conversation detailed in the last chapter; she revolved it in her mind, and tried to understand its bearings better than she had done; then she endeavoured to recall all that she had ever heard Frank say of Mr. Everard, and to recollect the very words he used in that death-bed scene which her visitor had referred to. From this she fell easily into her usual mournful musings upon her irreparable loss; and Everard for the rest of the night was forgotten.

He visited her again the next day. She received him with more embarrassment than she had done before, which was further increased when she perceived in his countenance and manner an air at once more assured, and somewhat more tender -- as that of one who felt that he had gained a victory. But while she had a vague perception of such a change, Rose was very far from comprehending its spring or origin. Thus she sought to maintain the conversation upon ordinary topics, studiously avoiding either references to her own projects, or to the discussion of the previous day. Everard, however, had formed his plan, and was not disposed to swerve from it.

He spoke of Frank's presentiment, that Rose and he had been parted for ever, and of the fancied attendance of her enfranchised spirit upon his steps. And the widow clasped her hands together, and listened with wrapt attention, as he told in eloquent language all that her loved husband had felt and feared; and then proceeded to touch on the issue of these presentiments. He worked upon her feelings even as he would: now making gentle tears to flow from her downcast eyes; now kindling in these orbs the sparkling light of intense affection. He saw that he had gained the mastery of tho instrument he played upon, and then he paused, and said, with a sigh, that it might almost make men doubt the justice or the mercy of Providence, to see people thus tortured. First exposed for months to the withering apprehension of evils that had not been; and then, after being tantalized with a gleam of assured happiness, suddenly to be snatched away from the midst of life, leaving those who loved him plunged in all the wretchedness which he had so uselessly feared for himself.

Rose ceased to weep, and spoke at length, "to justify the ways of God to man." And then she told him how Frank's unhappiness, in his separation from her, had made his spirit rest upon his God the more; and how the very presentiment he spoke of had been an instrument to further this end. And further, that she, too,- when they were parted, had felt anxieties for him which she never felt when at his side; and thus her mind had dwelt more on the uncertainties of life, till she also had become more prepared to endure the shock of a deprivation which, at any previous time, would, she felt sure, have plunged her into the darkness of despair.

And Everard listened, and owned himself in part convinced; and then he raised some other question -- some slight doubt, or implied reproach against the Divine government, and Rose warmed again on such a theme, till she forgot all else in the earnestness of her feelings. Then Everard smiled and thanked her, and said he would revolve her arguments; that she had done him good; that he was sure she could convince him in many points, if only she would kindly be at so much trouble for him; that he could not think of all his doubts and uncertainties at the moment, but he hoped, -- he would not doubt, -- that in process of time they would give way before the clearness and simplicity of her reasoning. And then, with other flattering words, he took his leave.

"In process of time!" soliloquized Rose. "We must make haste then. Has he forgotten how soon I am going? -- or does he suppose I am persuaded to postpone my voyage?"

Everard came again, and yet again. And now the Monday had arrived which had been fixed for our heroine's removal to Mr. Fielding's house. Both had studiously avoided speaking further of her departure; Rose, because she feared to rouse anew the passion which the name of Fielding had once before excited; and Everard, because seeing nothing to alarm him, he persuaded himself that by  keeping the subject out of her mind, the time might glide by without the necessary steps being taken. But now the Monday had arrived, and he was to be undeceived.

As he entered the house, he saw several trunks and packages standing together under the verandah; he started, and hastily entered the house. The parlour itself was in some confusion, and Rose was putting up a few ornamental trifles in a small box.

"Mrs. Merrival, what is the meaning of all this?" he asked, casting a disturbed glance around.

"Have you forgotten?" said Rose, holding out her hand. "You know this is the evening I am to go to Mr. Fielding's; -- to-morrow, the sale takes place."

He stood there before her, without taking her offered hand, while a frown gathered deeper and deeper on his brow.

"What right has he to resent it?" thought Rose, and she quietly pursued her occupation. It was soon finished; she tied a cord round the box, and then slowly raised her eyes. He was standing before her with the same dark expression of countenance.

"Mr. Everard!" she exclaimed reprovingly.

"Why have you deceived me!" cried he, in a voice of suppressed anger.

"How do you mean? I have not used any deception," replied Rose, gently but firmly. "I told you my purposes but a very few days since, and I have never seen reason to change them."

"Reason!" echoed Everard, with a sneer, -- "your purposes, as you call them, are not framed by reason, so why should solid reasons be required to overthrow them?"

"I do not understand you," said Rose; "but something has vexed you, I am sure, or you would not speak to me in this tone. Will you not sit down 2 Will you have some refreshment?"

"It is time you should understand me," cried Everard, throwing himself into a seat; "and since you must have reasons forsooth to work a change in your resolves, listen to me now, Mrs. Merrival."

He paused a full minute, however, in silence, while the expression of his countenance changed often: then suddenly rising, he stood (she also was standing) beside her.

"So we must part!" he said, in a voice from which every expression of wrath had passed away; -- "so, of your own free choice, you say that we must part! I did not think it would have been so, Rose! -- nay more, I do not think it will!" He took her hand as he spoke, and looked into her eyes with a mournful, tender, and enquiring gaze.

Rose felt her colour mounting higher and higher, till, with a burning crimson covering her whole face and neck, she withdrew her hand, and turned displeased away. At length she feared that she comprehended his anger; but she hoped that she was wrong, and, dreading to betray her thoughts, kept silence.

"Forgive me," Everard exclaimed; "forgive me, for you force me to this step. You force me to it, unless you will hearken to the entreaties of your friend, and postpone your voyage."

"That is impossible!" interrupted Rose hurriedly. "It is both my desire, and it is necessary, that I should leave India."

"Is it so impossible that you should oblige me? Have I then been your friend only to find my reward in being regarded as a stranger or an enemy?"

"As neither, Mr. Everard. As a kind, most kind friend, I have considered you, -- as such I wish ever to consider you."

"And yet you will leave me? Rose, do you reflect upon what you are doing? When last we spoke on this subject, I addressed myself to these feelings of friendship (I had hoped not unsuccessfully), I had thought that the pleasure of our intercourse was mutual. I had thought that the consciousness of being so highly useful to a fellow-being, as the conversations of the last few days must have convinced you that you are to me, would be a delight to you, -- a pure source of satisfaction, which would make you esteem your life of value to others besides that little child, so sweetly playing at your feet. I find that my address to such feelings was in vain, and I must plead on other grounds. What is it that takes you to England, Mrs. Merrival?"

"Necessity," replied Rose. "I have already said, sir, both necessity and inclination. My sorrowing mother has at least an equal claim upon me with any friend, -- my native country is more dear to me than this, -- and, if I must needs speak of my necessities also," she added, with rising colour, "I must say -- I have not means for living at Calcutta."

"And how do you purpose then existing in England?"

"I shall find means, sir, when there!" Rose answered with some displeasure. "You must be well aware that Calcutta is not a city that presents many resources for me! For every cause it is right that I should return to England."

"Again I cry, forgive me, Mrs. Merrival! I cannot bear from you that chilling tone; -- but you have reached the point to which I wished to bring you! I have said that I had appealed to your feelings of friendship in vain. There is a deeper fountain than that of friendship, -- but no," he added, glancing quickly on her face, -- "I dare not touch on that! I will appeal then to your reason, -- I will plead from expediency! You would return to England without any definite plan. You would support yourself and child by -- you know not what means. Something will offer; -- something will turn out; -- something will be found to be done! As a friend, -- the friend appointed by your husband to protect you, -- I say to you, beware! Are there not thousands struggling, -- aye, and struggling in vain, for that same something! Oh, Mrs. Merrival, you know not the fate you would rush upon, -- you see not the shoals and quicksands in your track! Reflect! ere it is too late; I adjure you to reflect! Remain, remain among your friends; you have many, I am sure, here. Remain among those who both can serve you and will! Stay here, -- stay in this very house, if you wish it, with every object around you which association has endeared. Stay! and I promise you that pecuniary difficulties shall not be among your cares. I will procure a pension for you, -- I am sure I can. I can do many things to serve you here; and if you will, your mother may some day join you. In England there are too many claimants, I can do nothing. Will you not stay?"

Rose hesitated. With faltering voice and tearful voice she began: -- "You are very, very kind! How can I thank you -- how repay a goodness so dis -- "

"You thank me enough, for the present, by compliance," eagerly interrupted Everard, with a look of joy so triumphant that Rose shrank back dismayed. "At a future time, a future but not, I trust, a distant time, you may reward me farther, -- may reward me fully, richly. This is a foretaste of my recompense!" he cried, seizing her hand and pressing it passionately .to his lips; "and with this much I will now be content! Yes, I will forbear now," he repeated, gently relinquishing her hand, "but time will soften your present grief, and then -- the friend -- the friend who speaks to you, may be thought worthy -- may become -- may supply, perhaps, his place who -- "

He hesitated; and Rose, unable till then to interrupt his impetuous utterance, in cold, calm 

"Does she not love me, little one?" he said, as he pressed the child more closely to his bosom.

"Pa-pa Ebearde, dear pa-pa Ebearde!" cried the child, patting his burning cheek.

"By heaven! the child is eloquent!" cried he with energy. "I never taught her that name; she gave it me from the first. Rose, will you take your child from me, who can and will protect her; will you a second time deprive her of a father? Will you, can you do it?"

"Give her to me," cried Rose, in a voice of agony.

Everard placed the baby in her arms. "Plead for me, Lucy," he whispered: "say, 'Do not go, mamma; do not go away from papa Everard.'"

"Let this scene cease, sir. It has continued too long already: for it is only fruitful of pain to all. You have wrung my heart indeed, in speaking of this orphaned babe. But God will protect the fatherless and the widow; and He will shew us a way to walk in, even in temporal things. I will trust in Him, Mr. Everard; -- and for my love! -- it sleeps in the grave with my husband. I cannot call it thence to give it to another. There it sleeps, and there it must remain. Oh! Frank, beloved Frank, my life's delight! did he think I could forget thee!"

"Enough, madam! I am answered now," said Everard proudly. "It was presumptuous, certainly, in such as I am, to hope to pass the threshold of a heart where this paragon had reigned supreme! I should have known, that to fix my eyes where his had been must be offensive. Neither wealth, nor station, nor mental cultivation, it appears, have any value for Lucy or Lucy's mother!"

"Oh! my child, may you never live to reproach me for what I am now doing!" cried Rose. "It is a sacrifice too great even for thy sake, my precious one! Oh! cruel, not to leave me so few months even to my sorrow!"

"I have been precipitate; but I will not even ask to see you if you will let it be so," said Everard, somewhat moved. "Stay only, and your time shall be your own. I would not appear before you but to your summons."

"And I meanwhile should live upon your bounty!" cried Rose. "No, no! Mr. Everard; I am now more than ever convinced that my decision is as right as it is irrevocable. But ere we part, -- for ever part, -- hear me once more declare my deep unalterable gratitude. At least at first your kindness was without a taint of selfishness, and even now some sort of gratitude is due for all you have proposed. If there were any other means of proving this, how gladly would I seek them; but my love is with the dead!"

She ceased shuddering; but a moment afterwards, advancing, laid her hand gently upon his. "Farewell, Mr. Everard," she said very softly, "and may God bless you!"

He hesitated a moment, then pressing her hand slightly, he turned in silence away.

"You have given me pain," resumed Rose, in her sweet tremulous tones, "but this I shall forget, Mr. Everard. I will remember only the comfort which I have always received from your society till now. I grieve that I should have pained you also," she added, in a still lower tone. "Will you not say one kind word to me at parting for ever?"

At length the look of sullenness and pride thawed beneath the influence of that soft voice. His own was husky and agitated as he said, with a hurried glance, as if he were afraid to trust himself to look at her, "Farewell, farewell, Mrs. Merrival! -- for ever, as you have said; and may you never find cause to regret your decision." Then lifting the little Lucy in his arms, he covered her smiling face with kisses, and without another word or glance, quitted the room, and the house.

The heart of our heroine was heavy when he had gone; not with regret for the loss of a lover, -- the very word seemed profanation to her, -- but for the loss of a friend. "It will soon be over now," said she: "this land is every day more hateful to me. I shall know peace when I have quitted it."

That night she went to Mr. Fielding's bungalow. She had dismissed all her servants, and now occupied herself as much as possible with her little girl. Her host and hostess were civil and attentive to her; but there was little in their society to interest either her mind or her feelings. She exerted herself, however, to pay farewell visits to her few acquaintances in Calcutta, and with Mrs. Lorrimer she spent some hours; but shrinking from the possibility of further agitation, she chose a time when she knew that Dr. Beverley was engaged with his professional avocations.

At length the tedious work expired, and Mr. Fielding escorted his guest on board the "London Belle." The hurry of departure had kept up her spirits till he left her; but then, her tears had way I To undertake a voyage alone, in a strange ship, was new and painful to her: everything spoke to her of Frank, -- of past happiness never to be recalled.

While thus weeping, some one entered the cabin; she looked up, -- it was Dr. Beverley.

"I could not let you leave India without a word of farewell," he said gently; "but I intrude now?"

"No," replied Rose; "I am glad to see you; besides, you have roused me from a weak and unavailing burst of sorrow. If this long and dreary voyage were but over!"

"You must not forget your fortitude," said Dr. Beverley; "it is among the most necessary of virtues to you. But I have a commission to fulfil. My sister begs your acceptance of a few little luxuries for your voyage, which I brought on board with me; they may be necessary for your comfort and that of your child. How much she is growTi and improved, since I saw her!" he added, with a sigh.

Rose felt much touched by this kindness. She thought in her heart that it was to the speaker's own considerate benevolence that she was indebted for this attention; but her mind was in a frame to feel it deeply from whatever hand it came, and her thanks, of course, were sent to Mrs. Lorrimer.

"Do not speak of it," interrupted Dr. Beverley; "do not, I beg. But there is one other thing I wish to say: -- you must not forget us; though oceans roll between us, you must never forget that should you need a friend, you have one in me, who will truly esteem it a favour if you will shew him how he may serve you. And do not," he added, "suppose, that any time which may elapse will make me forget what I now say."

The tears which Rose had suppressed at his entrance now flowed again; but how changed was their character. She could find no words but "how good, how kind, you are!"

He rose to depart, and struggling to smile through her tears, she put both her hands in his: he pressed them to his lips respectfully, -- and Rose was again alone.

For Everard, -- he had excused himself from dining with Mr. Fielding. After the conversation lately detailed, Rose saw him no more.

CHAPTER VIII.

"Had I the choice,
Death, and not poverty, were my election;
To die, is transient suffering; to be poor,
Interminable anguish."

Hindu Drama -- Blackwood.

The voyage was over, and Rose found herself once more in that mighty city, which, though she loved it not, she had never before entered but in hope or happiness; now how gloomy it appeared!

There was no kind friend to welcome her, -- not one even to whom she could hasten. Her good aunt's hospitable house was no longer open to her, its mistress was afar -- she scarce knew where. The Mavors, General Mortimer, -- all upon whose kindness she could depend, were distant, -- now, when she most had need of some to cheer her; and poor Rose, instead of a friend's welcome, was for the first time obliged to trust for her comforts to the selfish attentions of the host of an inferior inn, till her necessary business in London was arranged.

It was, however, well for her that she had to act for herself: her mind was continually occupied, and her body fatigued with exercise, which generally ensured her repose at night.

From one pressing anxiety she was soon relieved, by finding that there were nearly two hundred pounds in Frank's name in the Bank. This she deemed a sum amply sufficient to secure her from want until she had devised some means of procuring a subsistence.

She had written, on her landing, to her mother, and to Lucy Merrival, and had felt a hope that some of them would hasten to meet her in town. But in this she was disappointed, and as soon as possible she herself repaired to Woodlee.

She arrived -- but strangers were there! Her mother had already left the home of so many happy years! She lived at a distance; the new tenants of the spacious farm could not tell where; but "she had gone," they said, "from these parts eight or nine months since."

With a heavy heart, Rose turned away, and bade the man drive on to Stanfield. The people stared after her with cold curiosity, as she lifted her tired child again into the chaise, and resumed her own place among the trunks and packing cases; and the poor traveller, burying her face in her hands, to shut out every object, wept silent tears of anguish as she slowly rolled along. She could not bear to look upon those loved familiar scenes; but though her eyes were closed, her memory placed before her, in colour and outline, bright and clear as the realities, the garden bower where Frank and she had sported in their infant years; and where she had sighed and wept, and pondered on his words, in the days when she loved, but knew it not.

There, too, arose her father on her memory; his tall form and handsome countenance, -- his proud gaze of affection, as he hastened over from the field to welcome the child he idolized.

"Ah, never, -- never again!" she faintly exclaimed; -- "both, both are dead! and my mother, she mourns as I do -- hopelessly!"

It gave her a moment's joy to find her mother at Stanfield; Charles Merrival (no longer little Charlie, but a fine young man) had driven over for her in his father's gig, so soon as they heard of her daughter's landing, and all the numerous family, except the matron Margaret, were assembled to welcome the widowed Rose.

Sad, and yet soothing, was it to find so many to shed with her tears of sympathy, -- and that first night, ere she went to rest, she thanked her God with a full heart, that she had yet so many friends remaining to her.

But the force of these first emotions faded, and at the end of a week's time Rose was glad to quit Stanfield, and return with her poor mother to the little cottage which her husband had bought and settled upon her in days of brighter promise; for she began to fear that in the breasts of some of her husband's family, pity would soon grow cold, and calculating selfishness struggle with habitual affection.

Her friend Lucy, indeed, was still more tender and more warm in her demonstrations of attachment, than ever she was in more smiling hours; Charles, too, had always been devoted to Rose, and Mrs. Merrival was yet gentle and kind. Nevertheless, by some of the numerous circle the two widows felt that they were deemed intruders; and the old farmer himself scarcely ever saw Rose, without causing her, though unintentionally, some bitter tears.

"Well, Rose," he would say, "you'll find what it is now to have a child to rear! It's a mercy you have no more of them. You'll think one hard enough to provide for, I nothing doubt."

Then sometimes he would pain her yet more deeply, by casting upon Frank's memory imputations of extravagance.

"He ought to have laid by enough before this time, to have kept his widow above want," he muttered, "instead of throwing her perhaps upon my hands after all: to be sure, no one could tell but that her own father would be able to keep her, -- but really poor Morgan's misfortune may make any man feel insecure; and times" -- the hereditary complaint in all ages -- "are wretchedly bad! -- I fear I can do little for you, Rosey," he would add, turning towards her with a long drawn sigh. "There is Margaret's husband sinking, I am sure, into a decline; everything is in disorder there, too! -- I am sure of it, though Madge tells me to make myself easy. Easy forsooth! -- she will be coming back upon me some day, with four or five of her puny little ones I This house is never to be free from squalling children, I think I -- Don't look so flurried, Rose; your Lucy is a very good baby, -- I never hear her hardly; a pretty little soul she is-, but more like you than Frank, I think. Poor Frank! You would have done better to marry your rich lover you see after all. Rose! but young girls never think of the future! Love, love is all that their silly heads are stuffed with! What! crying, Rose? -- what have I said to make you cry I Poor thing! -- well, forgive me. There! I cannot bear tears! we have had too many of them lately. There, there, dear, -- I am sorry I mentioned Frank to you, since you cannot bear it yet. Give me the child, and dry your eyes! -- Kiss grandpapa, Lucy! -- Sweet baby it is; but delicate, I fear: that is a sad climate for a child to be born in, or indeed for man to live in. Poor Frank!"

And thus, day after day, the old man would prate on, to Rose's great discomfort; and so, as I have said, she was glad to leave Stanfield, and be quite alone with her mother and her child, in their very small and secluded cottage.

This was situated ten or twelve miles from Stanfield, in as pretty a spot as the lovers of rural scenery could desire. But it was very sequestered, -- too much so for those desolate women.

At first, the perfect repose was refreshing to Rose's spirit; it was a happiness to both, to divide their separate burdens of affliction, -- to feel that every grief which had befallen either when apart, was now in common. Each day, they talked together of the dead, and it seemed as if the tears which issued from so deep a spring could never be exhausted.

But as week after week passed by, and scarcely a neighbour, in this thinly peopled district, had crossed the threshold, Mrs. Morgan began to feel that the solitude, which she had not regretted for herself, was ill-fitted to restore vigour to her daughter's mind. She saw with alarm that Rose became thin and very pale; her sorrow threatened to assume that settled form of habitual depression which is of all others the most difficult to conquer. She would sit gazing upon vacancy, and sighing often, -- not from any new thought of pain, but from the constant burden of grief, which even her child's smiles failed to lighten.

Winter was approaching, and she feared that it would be even worse with Rose in the desolate season of the earth, and she resolved to speak to her of these fears.

"Dear Rose, I wish you would walk out with me this afternoon; the air is bracing. It will do you good."

"Oh, mother! I do not need it, -- I am well indeed."

"My child, will you not oblige me? You are pale; -- you must rouse yourself!, dear Rose!"

She could but sigh for answer, -- a sigh which said, "it is impossible."

"Get Lucy ready to go, my dear. We must make her hardy before winter comes."

"Yes, -- poor Lucy! I will dress her, mother. But will not you take charge of her? I do not feel inclined to walk."

Mrs. Morgan looked grieved; and Rose, sighing again, prepared herself, as well as the child.

"Mother," said Rose, as they sauntered slowly down a winding lane, with the crisp autumn leaves rustling beneath their feet, "I wish it pleased God that I were as a withered leaf, with the living walking over mo, forgetting that I had been!"

"Rose! Rose! would you wish to leave your little girl an orphan, and your mother childless?"

"Oh, no, no! -- may God forgive the selfish thought!"

"My child,"" pursued the old lady, with a glistening eye, "I fear lest we both offend against the Most High daily; -- some might think that, in a tranquil and lovely spot like this, two lonely women must lead pure and sinless lives (and indeed it is a scene for holiness); but how is it with us, Rose, if we search within our breasts? We have been afflicted by the hand of Him who judgeth the earth, and we have submitted meekly for a time; -- at least, I humbly trust that we have done so. But this is no merit in us; we submit, because we feel that we are in His hand, and must perforce submit to what we cannot remedy. But more is required from us than to refrain from murmurs, Rose. There is not a day of our lives but hath its trial and its duty; ours is plain to be seen, though I fear we often forget it. Not only submission is demanded, but cheerful and perfect submission from the heart to His will; and active struggles, my dear child, to be whatever else He would have us. Let us look round then, and see what we can do; for in truth, Rose, sorrow must not prey upon our minds, -- must not be the idol to which we sacrifice our lives."

"Oh mother, you are right, as you ever are," said Rose, taking her hand, and pressing it to her bosom affectionately. "You are both just and gentle in your censures, for the fault is mine; -- a double fault, for I have troubled the peace which you had acquired before I came!"

"You will try then, will you, dearest?"

"Yes, yes, mother, I will; but what can be done here? The days roll by like a sleep, and the past is as its dream. There is no present for me, but in your affection, mother."

"We must not think of this, my child. But at all events we must work a change -- if not in our circumstances, in ourselves."

"Every thing is different from what I expected," said Rose musingly. "In India, mother, when first I understood my position, I thought of many things that I could do; but I do not now see the way. I thought to make an object for myself in life, by labouring daily for Lucy's sake, to obtain the power of bringing her up as Frank would have wished; and indeed it must be done, mother, -- but I know not how to think of leaving you."

"Of leaving me, dear Rose? -- why should you think of such a project?"

"But nothing can possibly be done in this lonely place, mother, -- nothing, unless you would have me indeed labour with my hands in the field."

"Then, Rose, we will leave this place."

"Leave your pretty cottage, mother I -- oh, I cannot ask it from you. It speaks to you of my father, -- of long-past happy days. I know well how you love it."

"I love it indeed, Rose; but I will leave it, for we must not part, and the place is not good for you. But let us go home now; we must talk more of these things -- "

They returned with a much more rapid step than they had set forth; for there was now an object, a purpose before them, -- and this it is that makes life burdensome or otherwise.

Little Lucy was laid to sleep in her cot; the fire was roused to brightness upon the hearth (for the evenings began to wax cold), and the two widows, with something like a smile upon their lips, drew their arm-chairs close together, and resumed their conversation.

"'What can you do, Rose?' is the question; that is the first thing to be settled; -- and then, if move we must, 'where to go?' will follow."

Aye, "what can be done?" is the question. It has been the question of hundreds of thousands in every degree of poverty, and it will be so in all ages; -- not only the end, but the means, has to be sought with pains and industry.

Of all the proverbs, trite and true, that are in daily use, none perhaps is quoted more often than that "Men are the sport of circumstances;" and let what will be said on the other side, it is a truth which makes itself felt perpetually; and applying to all mankind as it does, it is more peculiarly true of woman. Poor helpless woman! It is difficult for a man who has not a profession marked out for him, or work given to his hand, to find the way to earn an independence; for woman it is almost impossible. Her heart swells with magnanimous resolves; she can do this, or that -- why should she not? -- she would refuse herself this, and restrict herself in the other; but what is the end of all her aspirations? Why this: deny herself she can -- she does -- nay, must -- she has a negative power; but perform any thing, save in some few cases, she cannot. Difficulties, unexpected, undreamed of, meet her in a thousand shapes upon the very threshold.

Poor helpless woman! Those not brought up to toil in some particular sphere, are lost indeed when the grasp of poverty is upon them. It is not that his hand chills them, for they have an elastic power implanted in their bosoms that makes their spirits meet adversity, in many cases, with more firmness than men; -- but it is that, when forced into the active scenes of life, they are timid, ignorant, and helpless.

But Rose was brought up to labour in a peculiar sphere; she had been a milliner, and her thoughts naturally turned to this, as her first and great resource.

Many projects besides this were, however, discussed between the two that night; some wild enough, -- scarcely feasible indeed; some practicable, but unpleasant. She might seek a situation as governess for young children, -- as companion, -- as housekeeper to some person of distinction; but all these were set aside, for they entailed a separation from her mother and child; they might take a house in some large town or fashionable watering-place, and let lodgings; or they might commence business as confectioners, -- the stock in trade could not be expensive, -- the business would be easily learnt, no doubt; -- oh, there was no end to projects. But when each was examined more closely, it was astonishing to find how many difficulties and objections appeared; and chiefly, -- they were friendless and unknown, nor did any particular town invite their choice.

At Bristol, indeed, were the Mavors. -- but Bristol was very distant. Mrs. Morgan shrunk from the journey; and neither of them wished to remove so far from Stanfield. So back, after all the scheming, they returned to the first idea, -- Rose should resume her early business, -- should again be a milliner.

In a few days it was determined that the little family should quit the cottage, and repair for the first attempt to the town nearest to their residence. This was Woburn.

They had little difficulty in finding a house to suit them; and, as soon as they were settled. Rose hastened to purchase silks, and ribbons, and gauzes, and to make up sundry caps, bonnets, and ruffles, in the newest fashion, which were displayed in the windows looking up the High-street. Every one must see them; to see was to admire, and to admire must sometimes be to purchase. Oh I for a few days, Rose was very sanguine.

But though many loungers stood gazing at the fine things in the new milliner's, and though several young women stepped in just to ask the price of some article which had more particularly excited their admiration, a whole week passed by before anything was sold. Rose now felt dispirited, and the caps lost their freshness. She reduced the prices, and pinned tickets to each: the number of gazing idlers increased, and a few things were disposed of; but some had still to be further reduced in price, and when at the end of seven weeks all were sold, Rose found that the profits upon her outlay amounted exactly to fourteen shillings! For this her time had been sacrificed, and her spirits wasted in anxiety and expectation.

She was afraid to risk another similar experiment; but wherever she had established a speaking acquaintance in the town she solicited orders, and at the suggestion of Mr. Bennet, the tradesman from whom she had procured her first stock of goods, and one who had shewn her several civilities, she now had circulars printed, soliciting the patronage of the nobility and gentry of Woburn and its vicinity.

It could not be said that this new experiment was entirely without fruit, for a day or two after the distribution of the circulars, a handsome carriage was seen standing for half an hour at Mrs. Merrival's door, and its pretty voluble young mistress was closeted for as long a time with our milliner, giving directions for articles innumerable, which she wanted in the greatest haste: -- they must absolutely be at the hall by four o'clock next day, for at five she was to start for London; her maid had already worn her fingers to the bone in her service, and the things she must positively have.

The lively girl rattled on, expressing herself delighted with Rose, enraptured with little Lucy, and charmed with the respectable old grandmother. It was a thousand pities, she said, that she had not known of so useful an arrival at Woburn earlier: she could have kept her employed for a month: it was very neglectful of Mr. Bennet not to inform her.

She hoped, however, that Mrs. Merrival would be properly encouraged. She was going to town for three months, -- three whole months of gaiety; but when she returned, she would certainly recommend her to all her friends.

Rose was quite delighted with these obliging words from the great heiress and star of the neighborhood; and, eager to please, she sat up nearly all the night toiling at her task. Mr. Bennet lent his shopboy to carry the bandbox to the hall by the appointed hour; the bill was settled at once; and obliging message was sent, expressive of Miss Herries' satisfaction, and Rose thought her fortune already made, -- her character established as a milliner of repute.

But little benefit in reality resulted from this lady's patronage, except the cordial which it administered to her fainting hopes, when most it was required. No other carriage stopped at the door; the pink and grey bonets, the cap, and the togue, with which she had ventured again to grace the window, bloomed and faded in vain; but Rose counted the three months, when Miss Herries returned, all would be right again.

Alas! (I trust she will pardon the ill-omened interjection), ere the fourth month had expired. Miss Herries had become Lady Troubridge. and the Woburn milliner was thought of by her no more.

The year ended, and poor Rose found to her regret and mortification, that instead of being employed by the gentry, whose patronage she had solicited, she had degenerated into a maker of Sunday gowns and holiday bonnets for the homely folks of the little town; and even of this business she had not half enough to keep her nimble fingers in employ.

She wound the accounts of the year, and found the sum in the bank diminished, despite of all her care, by more than one half. This would never do. New exertions were necessary; a new cabinet council was held with her mother, and the result was that Mrs. Morgan should attend to the millinery department, so far as taking orders was concerned, and that Rose, while still employing her needle in her leisure hours, should for her chief means of maintenance, open a school.

She called upon all her acquaintances and solicited their support. Mr. Bennet readily promised his two great girls: they wanted a little finishing polish, he said, and his wife had plagued him to send them to a boarding school in London; but he had a notion that it would make them "uppish," and he was quite glad such a good scheme had come in the way to help his side of the argument. Then, who could have better manners than Mrs. Merrival who had been brought up in London herself too! It was the very thing he could have wished. She might reckon upon his girls.

And the worthy Mr. Bennet did not stop there; for whether anxious that his neighbours should keep him in countenance, and so strengthen his daring rebellion against his wife, or whether simply desirous of serving "the interesting widows," as they were pretty generally called in Woburn, he did not relax in his exertions till he had procured seven other pupils from among the children of his fellow townsmen.

Mrs. Merrival's terms, if any of my readers are curious in the minuter details of her proceedings in this battle with adversity, were ten, or twelve pounds per annum, the increase being made for those who desired the accomplishments of French and music. This part of her plan had not been adopted without much deliberation, for it involved the new expense of the purchase of a piano. Mr. Bennet made a point of it, however, and a secondhand instrument was procured at a neighbouring sale.

I must confess that my heroine's knowledge of neither of these accomplishments was very profound; but still it was sufficient to command the respect of the simple Woburnites, amongst whom intellect had scarcely then commenced its forward march.

It will be recollected that when Rose first left Woodlee to reside with her Aunt Massiter, it had been with the view of finishing her education under London masters. The little she had acquired at that time had lain dormant long; but Rose now applied herself anew to grammars and gamuts, and all rudimental lore; and was soon qualified to teach more than her pupils could learn.

All was ready: the nine pupils assembled one fine spring morning, and Rose commenced her new employment with ardour. Education is toilsome work at best; and when the soil has received but little previous cultivation, the task IS rendered doubly hard. But Rose soon felt an interest in the occupation which made her forgets its drudgery; she found a pleasure in educating, -- she delighted to see the improvement made in every week, and found pleasure also in studying the different dispositions of her pupils, and modifying her treatment according to each character, while yet she held the scales of justice so even that no murmur could arise amongst the flock.

Her mind being now fully and usefully exercised, Rose became once more happy. Her mother rejoiced in her recovered smiles, and little Lucy, the petted plaything of the schoolroom, filled their humble dwelling with glad sounds of mirth.

The parents with one voice lavished praises on the schoolmistress, -- the pupils increased in number each succeeding quarter, -- and when the third drew to its close, Rose felt herself on the high road to affluence and thought her life had but to proceed in the same even course of prosperity, to ensure her all the happiness which the world could now possibly offer her, and much more than she had ventured to expect.

The quarter, as I have said, was over; most of the scholars (she had now sixteen) had taken their leave, and their respective parents dropped in from time to time the same evening, to pay their bills; -- being of that good old-fashioned class of honest souls, now scarce enough, who cannot bear to hold money in their hands for a single hour after it has become due to another.

"I will step up to Mrs. Merrival's, wife; she will like to have her money, poor thing," said Mr. Bennet, and more than one honest man besides, as he shut up his shop that night. And had Rose been an empress seated in state to receive the sumptuous offerings of numerous ambassadors, she could not have been more gratified with either the offerings, or the compliments which accompanied them.

At length it grew too late to expect more visitors. "Why, mother, we shall be quite rich again soon!" cried Rose, with a bright smile. "See what a pretty little heap of gold, and there are three to pay yet! Let me see. There is dear little Jane Nevil, Sarah Bright, and Charlotte Smithson; -- what a great awkward girl she is, by the way, but affectionate and goodnatured too."

"Neither one nor the other, dear Rose, depend upon it," said Mrs. Morgan; "she is artful and wheedling enough; affectionate -- no."

"Ah! I know you never liked her, mother; nor indeed do I much; but she is a quick scholar, and does me credit so far. But why talk of her l I was going to say, mother, that when these other three have paid, I shall be able to send up at least thirty pounds to the bank. That is delightful; -- is it not? It shall be the beginning of a fortune for our Lucy, mother, and we will never touch it for anything. Oh! I shall feel so happy to provide for my child entirely through my own exertions. Do you not think, mother, that, even in another world, Frank may be happier in knowing what I am doing? I often think I see his approving smile. I feel so very happy to-night, mother!""

"Alas! poor Rose. It is sad that it should be so. But I have learnt this lesson in my life: whenever I feel in myself or perceive in others that the tide of happiness has risen to a more than usual height, I look for its rapid ebbing as a thing of course: the waves of prosperity cannot roll in for ever upon one shore! Rose, did not thy heart misgive thee when thou saidst those words, 'I feel so very happy tonight, mother?'"

No: -- the happiness of Rose was from a reasonable cause, and no shadow of evil to come was seen.

"It is near eleven o'clock, my child. What an hour for sober people like us! Read the chapter, dear, and let us to bed."

"Near eleven! we must hasten indeed, then. Just let me lock up my treasure first. The red box has not been so heavy since we came to Woburn: only feel it, mother."

"I am very sleepy, Rose," said Mrs. Morgan again, as she complied.

"Well, snuff the candles, dear mother, and I will read." She did so, and they hastened away to their peaceful pillows.

It was the schoolroom that they sat in through the evening, and to the same room Rose descended in the morning at her usual hour. She remembered that she had left her red box upon the table over night; but there was nothing there now, save the Bible and the candlestick. The only person in the room was the little girl named as Jane Nevil; -- she was the youngest of the pupils (a special darling with Rose), the motherless child of the apothecary of Woburn.

"How long have you been here, Jane, dear?" she asked.

"Not long, ma'am. Papa told me to come to-day though it is holidays, because, he said, he did not like me to be at home alone, ma'am, and nurse is gone away ill. Papa will come for me himself when he goes home to dinner, and will tell you about it, ma'am." ""

"Very well, dear. Now tell me, Jane, was there not a red box upon the table when you came in?"

"Yes, ma'am, -- your red box it was."

"And where have you put it, Jane?"

"Nowhere; I did not touch it, ma'am. It was Charlotte Smithson that took it away."

"Took it away! Has Charlotte Smithson been here then?"

"Yes, ma'am; she came almost just after me."

"Are you quite sure, Jane? What did she say when she took it?"

"Yes, I am quite sure," said the child earnestly. "She shook the box, and talked about it, and then took it away. I asked her what she was going to do with it, ma'am; but she slapt me, and told me to hold my tongue, and then went away very quick."

Rose called her mother in great haste, and the child was again questioned by her, but told only the same tale. Having consulted together, the mother and daughter then put on their bonnets, and stepped down to Mr. Bennet's shop, to ask his advice as to what was best to be done. From him they learnt that Smithson, the father of the accused girl Charlotte, who was a collector of rates, had only the day before been dismissed from his office, on suspicion of peculation. Bennet hoped he was not unjust, but he had little doubt that the whole family were a nest of rogues: Charlotte he had never liked, and at one time had forbidden his girls to associate with her. There could be no doubt that little Miss Nevil spoke the truth, and the only course to be pursued was to go to a magistrate at once, and have a warrant made out against the girl.

Rose demurred, -- she was distressed at the idea of inflicting so public a disgrace, and proposed that Charlotte should first be questioned, and charged with the theft; -- but her mother and Mr. Bennet both strongly objected to this scheme, and Rose finally yielded to their opinions, and consented that the friendly tradesman should drive her and the child over in his gig to Woburn Hall, to lay the matter before Sir Samuel Herries.

Mrs. Morgan meanwhile was recommended by Bennet to keep strict silence on the subject; and by Rose was charged with many apologies to Mr. Nevil, for the absence of his daughter when he should call for her.

Everything, indeed, was done as quietly and as quickly as possible, yet, before the day was half over, all the town was gossiping of the occurrence. The constable had been seen going into Smithson's house, -- some thought it must be about the embezzlement of the public monies, -- but when Charlotte, instead of her father, was led in the custody of the officer down the street, and put into Sir Samuel Herries' market cart, hundreds of conjectures were at once afloat, and ere long something of the truth was borne along upon the tide of error, nobody knew how.

Mrs. Morgan's door was now besieged by a ceaseless succession of gossips, all eager to sift out the truth. Amiable pursuit! But were it a question of some secret deed of charity, would they -- . We will not, however, imitate the research of these good folks, and too curiously probe our neighbours' minds.

As this is merely a brief episode in our heroine's history, we need not pause to describe the magistrate before whom she now appeared; it is enough to say that Sir Samuel Herries heard her tale with much interest -- that he was convinced (as every one else had been) of the truth of the child's narrative, and immediately issued a warrant for the apprehension of Charlotte Smithson.

When the parties again appeared before him. and were confronted with the accused, more than one of the spectators detected a look and gesture of menace from the latter towards the child, which tended still further to prejudice her in their opinion. Little Jane however only crimsoned, and pressed closer to Mrs. Merrival. She did not hesitate in her story when called upon by the magistrate to repeat it.

"Begin quite at the beginning, my dear; from the time you left your own house this morning," said Sir Samuel; "and take care that you tell it me all quite truly, my little girl, will you?"

"Yes, sir; I will tell you all that I told before to Mrs. Merrival and Mrs. Morgan, and that was quite true. Betsy, our cook, took me to school, because nurse was ill; she took off my bonnet and spenser, and left me directly; and as no one was there, I began to play with the chairs and form in a comer of the room; then Charlotte Smithson came in, and asked me if Mrs. Merrival had been in, and I said, no, and went on with my playing, until I heard something rattling; and I crept out from under the great chair (which I made believe was my house), and I saw Charlotte holding up Mrs. Merrival's red box in her hands, and shaking it, and listening, -- and looking very red and pleased too; and she said something to herself about a little fortune, and put the box under her shawl. And then she looked round very sharp, and saw me peeping out at her, and she said. 'I can't wait any longer, Jane; tell Mrs. Merrival that I came to pay for my schooling, but, as she isn't here, perhaps she will come up to father's for it.' She spoke very quick, but it was something like that she said, and was going out at the door; then I ran to her, and said, 'What do you want with Mrs. Merrivars red box, Charlotte?' and she turned round very angry and slapped my face, and said, 'Hold your tongue, clat, I haven't got it;' then she went out directly and shut the door. And I cried, a little at first because she had hurt me; and then I went to play again till Mrs. Merrival came in."

"That will do, Jane," said Sir Samuel. "And now are you quite sure that the box you saw was Mrs. Merrival's box?"

"Yes, quite, sir; I had seen it on the table; but it always stands on the top shelf."

"And are you quite sure that no one else came in, besides Charlotte Smithson?"

"Yes, quite, sir."

"There was her own servant!" cried the girl saucily.

"Yes, only she stood at the door while she took off my things," replied the child; "she did not come into the room further, indeed."

"And is that little thing to be believed rather than me!" cried Charlotte.

"Do you deny the charge, then?" asked Sir Samuel.

"Yes, sir, I do; and it is hard indeed," (here she began to cry and sob), -- "I think it is very hard if any little child may trump up a lie to take away a poor girl's character in this way. I am sure nobody ever had anything to say against me before! It's just because of father's misfortune yesterday, -- we are all to be persecuted, we are: I see it plainly! He is as innocent as me, I don't doubt."

"About as much so, I believe," muttered Bennet, 'sotto voce.'

"But when one dog barks," continued the girl, "all the curs of the town join in! and this is the reason, Sir Samuel, that you see me brought up before you in this disgraceful way. Oh, what on earth shall I do evermore, if I'm suspected to be a thief! -- and by Mrs. Merrival, too, that I always loved so well, and would have served on my knees, I would!" Here her voice sunk, and she wept and sobbed more bitterly than before.

"If you are innocent, I am sorry for you," said Sir Samuel Herries. "Let me hear then your account of what has occurred this morning."

"I have no account to give, sir," sobbed Charlotte. "I accuse no one, not I! I only deny all about it."

"What! do you deny that you were at Mrs. Merrival's house this morning? Take care what you say!"

Charlotte hesitated, but replied, "No, sir, I do not deny that, -- but all about the box."

"What box?"

"The red box; Mrs. Merrival's money box."

"Where is this box?" asked the magistrate. "It would be well if you could let me see it."

Charlotte startled, reddened, and looked confused.

"Where is it?" repeated Sir Samuel, fixing his eyes sternly upon her.

"I do not know," said the girl, reddening deeper than before.

"You do not know?"

"No, I don't!" she repeated in a very decided voice. And from that moment, -- as if she had suddenly made up her mind what line of conduct to pursue, she no longer hesitated or looked confused, but promptly and firmly gave every answer that was required; and remained unmoved whenever an attempt was made to appeal to her better feelings.

"You called it Mrs. Merrival's money box; how do you know that she applied it to this purpose?"

"I have seen her take money from it."

"When?"

"Several times. Last week she took a guinea out of it, because she had not enough in her purse to pay the gentleman who came from Dunstable to tune the piano."

"And yesterday, Sir Samuel," said Rose, "she must have seen me put money into the box; for she is a good-natured girl, I willingly acknowledge, and she stayed to put all the books and slates neatly away for me, as it is the long vacation; and was in the room when several of my bills were paid."

"Did you know of money being put into the box yesterday?" asked Sir Samuel of Charlotte.

"Yes, sir."

"And where was the box when you last saw it yesterday?"

"And where was it when you went there this morning?"

But Charlotte was not to be thus thrown off her guard, and answered.

"I do not know."

"How is that?"

"I did not see it."

"Nor touch it?"

"Certainly not."

"Oh! Charlotte," exclaimed the little Jane, in amazement.

"You saw this child there, I suppose?"

"Yes, sir; but I was in haste. She told you as much herself."

"Then you acknowledge there is some truth in her statements?"

"They have put in just enough to make their story plausible, of course."

"Well, well. -- Tell me all then that you did see or do while you were in the schoolroom this morning."

"Yes sir; and I must tell you that last night when I went home I found my father and brother both looking very gloomy and unhappy, and I soon heard how his place had been taken away from him; he took it more to heart, he said, because of his good name, than for the gain it was to him. He said he was sure he had enemies; and I believe, indeed, that somebody wants to ruin us all. I am sure, if I only knew -- "

"We have nothing to do with all this," said Sir Samuel; "go on with your story as briefly as possible."

"Well, sir, after a great deal of unhappy talk, father said he should be ashamed to show his face in Woburn now; that he had always been an honest man, and poor though he should be now, he would pay his debts like an honest man still, and then he would leave the cursed town, he said, for good and all; and then he gave me three pounds, and told me to pay the schoolmistress first thing in the morning, and tell her that I should not go back there. So I went, as he had bidden me, that was the reason; but as Mrs. Merrival was not there, and I wanted to make haste back, to get ready the breakfast, lest father should be cross after his troubles, I told little Jane there, to ask Mrs. Merrival to call at our house for the money. How this grand story of her's has come into her head Heaven knows; for my part, I never like clever children."

"Then you did not stay any time in the school-room, nor take the box from the table? Were you near the table?"

"Not very near; I only staid a minute and stood by the window."

"And did your father or your brother know of this plan of yours to take the box?" asked Sir Samuel, anxious to surprise the girl into some inadvertence of speech.

"No sir; how could they know, when there was no such thing?"

"I suppose, then, you did not think about it till you saw the box?"

"It seems you do not believe me, sir!" cried Charlotte, in an offended tone. "I told you that I did not see the box: it is very hard that I am not to be believed."

"Very hard, indeed," said Sir Samuel; "but it is plain that one of you is not to be believed. By the bye, what made you strike that child, -- or slap her face, I think she called it?"

"I did no such thing: it is all a lie, and that Jane knows very well."

"Gently, gently, my girl; I have now heard two very straightforward probable stories, yet one of them is false. We are apt to listen favorably to the words of a little child, because there is less capacity for a consistent invention, and less skill or boldness in parrying investigation; but this is not enough: are there any other witnesses who can appear on either side?"

Bennet named Mrs. Morgan, and Mr. NeviFs cook Betsy; but Mrs. Merrival said that she was sure nothing further could be elicited but a confirmation of the less important parts of the child's story, and declined wasting more of the magistrate's time.

"None?" said Sir Samuel; "then come here, my little girl. You say you have told me nothing but the plain truth; do you know what an oath is?"

The child looked frightened, and Sir Samuel repeated his question.

"I only know it is something very wicked," said little Jane.

"Not always wicked, my dear. I want to feel quite sure that you have told me nothing but the truth. Will you take an oath that it is so?"

"Oh, no, no!" said the little girl, burying her face in the skirt of Mrs. Merrival's gown. "I know it is wicked; what only very, very wicked people do."

"Try if you can make her understand it better, Mrs. Merrival," said Sir Samuel. "This is an awkward business."

Rose tried, and Mrs. Bennet tried, and Sir Samuel's clerk tried, but in vain. The child only looked more frightened and distrustful every minute; and, at length, bursting into tears, begged to be taken to her papa.

"This is a sad thing," said Sir Samuel, at length; "but it is not possible to receive that child's evidence, poor little innocent. You, Charlotte Smithson, I suppose, fully understand how solemn an appeal to your God is? You understand the nature of an oath?"

Charlotte answered satisfactorily, and professed herself quite ready to swear to the truth of her statements.

The clerk presented the book; the girl's colour was heightened; but then every eye was rivetted intently upon her: her own were downcast and restless, but there were no other evidences of emotion. With a steady hand she held the sacred volume, and was about to repeat the required oath, but Sir Samuel interposed.

"Stop, young woman," he cried sternly; "for I believe most truly that you are about to add perjury to lying. The story of that young child could not be invented; I appeal to the judgments of all here if it could be so; but as her evidence, unfortunately, cannot be legally received, your crime must remain for this time unpunished, and I will spare you the needless guilt of that false oath you were about to swear. You are at liberty; go home, and reflect seriously upon the narrow escape you have had from imprisonment, and perhaps death! Go, and take a caution from me to be very guarded in your future conduct. You will not always escape thus. Mrs. Merrival, I am sorry for your loss, but I see no remedy: I can only recommend you in future to keep your money more securely."

"Indeed I shall!" said Rose, with a sigh, as the disappointed party quitted the room.

The worthy Mr. Bennet was almost more dejected than Rose herself at the result of their expedition, and again and again declared his belief that Smithson had assisted his daughter in concealing the booty from the search of the officer, and instructed her as to her bold bearing. "It is just the way that he behaved himself," said he, "at his examination yesterday!" And then the good man declared that he would begin a subscription through the town to make up the lost sum to Mrs. Merrival. He could not bear that she should lose the well-earned fruits of her labour in such a way. The honour of the town was concerned, and he did not doubt that Sir Samuel would commence the subscription, and every one else willingly follow his example. He wished he had thought of it before leaving the Hall! he would turn the gig and go back now, if Mrs. Merrival would not mind walking the rest of the way home with little Jane.

Rose, however, earnestly dissuaded him from the project. She could not bear to live upon alms, she said, and this would be nothing else. It was a great disappointment certainly; but, after all, it was only one quarter lost, -- she was not absolutely necessitous, and would trust to better times for the future.

Though all Woburn talked of the above occurrence for full nine days, nothing was ever proved against Charlotte. One woman declared that she had seen her brother, Tom Smithson, on the morning in question, running with a box the size and colour of that in question, across the meadow; and that smoke, as if from a fire, was seen rising from the same direction soon afterwards. But others laughed at this, saying, that if they wanted (as no doubt they did) to burn the box, they could have done it safely enough at home.

This is certain, however: that, a fortnight after exciting so prodigious a sensation, all the Smithsons quitted Woburn, and returned there never more.

CHAPTER IX.

"Me let the tender office long engage
To rock the cradle of declining age;
With lenient arts extend a mother's breath,
Make languor smile, and smooth the bed of death;
Explore the thought, explain the asking eye.
And keep awhile one parent from the sky."

Pope's Epistles.

When the time arrived for the reassembling of her pupils, Mrs. Merrival found with some dismay that their number was considerably diminished.

Surprised and concerned at this, she took pains to ascertain the cause of the desertion; and in the process of investigation discovered that though, from the profuse sympathy and commiseration which had been expressed for her late misfortune, she had supposed that but one common feeling existed in the town upon the subject, -- there was in fact an opposition party, in whose eyes Charlotte Smithson was exalted into a species of moral martyr; and who declared that if there was not another school within fifty miles, they would never send their girls to run the risk of losing their good name through such vile accusations; that Mrs. Merrival knew what she was about to raise the cry of robbery; it was an old trick from the days of the Marquis of Carabas (whenever these may have been) to the present: but that they knew whether Mrs. Merrival, who had dropped among them, as it were, from the clouds, or poor Charlotte Smithson, whom they had known from the cradle, was most likely to deserve the character of a thief.

When these whispers, backed by still more cruel and groundless aspersions and insinuations, first reached the ears of Rose, she felt perfectly thunderstruck and incredulous; -- indignation succeeded, but when this too had passed away, she found that a new and deep wound had been struck at her happiness. Hitherto, her peace of mind had never been disturbed by the withering breath of malevolence, -- the feeling of confidence with which she had mingled with her neighbours was now-gone. She no longer felt sure that she spoke to a friend, whomsoever she addressed; and her spirits sank under this new sensation of mistrust, more even than from abatement of the bright hopes with which the last year had closed.

Rose would soon, however, have learnt to weigh the opinions of the gossips of Woburn at their proper light worth, had not new troubles arisen to divert her thoughts into another channel.

The only pupil for whose absence she had been able satisfactorily to account, was a little girl who was suffering from a severe attack of typhus-fever. Mrs. Morgan, whose heart was ever full of kindness to all who were in distress, when she found that the mother was worn out with watching day and night beside her suffering child, hastened to offer her assistance, and insisted upon sitting up in the sick chamber, to let the wearied family have at least one night of unbroken rest.

On her return home next day, she took every precaution that occurred to her to prevent the communication of the disease. But notwithstanding this, in a few days, she also was in her bed from the same alarming malady.

She upbraided herself in vain for what she now thought culpable imprudence, and the distress and anxiety of her mind only increased the fever.

The scholars, of course, were instantly detained at their respective homes, and Mr. Nevil, who had been much interested in Rose from the period of the robbery, took little Lucy home with him, until she could be sent to her.

In this trouble, our young widow wrote to the Merrivals, - not without a hope, judging from the dictates of her own heart, that some of them might come directly to share her cares and vigils: -- but in this she was disappointed. Lucy wrote to her most affectionately, expressing her own wish to do so. but her parents forbade the risk. Margaret was now also a widow, and had come with her children to Stanfield. Grace was very shortly going to be married, and all the family were in rather a state of confusion. But her little niece and godchild, she said, must not remain at Wobum to give trouble and anxiety at such a time: and though Marsraret had induced her to promise that she would not enter the house, for fear of conveying the infection to her children, -- if her little namesake could be sent to the inn. with her clothes, on a morning named, die would get her brother Charles to drive her over in the car, to fetch her thence; and she added a promise that little Lucy should be her own special charge until her mother should be able safely to recall her.

Rose felt that this was not all that she had expected; for she knew that Mrs. Morgan would have devoted herself for the good of the Merrivals without the intrusion of a single selfish consideration; but she did her friend Lucy the justice to exempt her from any share of the coldness, of which she mentally accused the others.

On mentioning the arrangement to Mr. Nevil, he kindly undertook to deliver the child into the care of her uncle and aunt at the appointed hour, and give them all the information they should desire concerning his patient, whose situation, he could not conceal from Rose, was extremely precarious.

And very soon, every thought and wish was engrossed by this one care. When she contemplated the probability of losing this dear and excellent parent, who had so ceaselessly struggled to subdue her own sorrows to support her in those so similar which she had to bear; -- when she reviewed the course of her life from infancy, marked by every proof of affection that a mother could bestow, -- unmarred by a single word of harshness, or a single interruption to their perfect confidence; -- then her heart sunk at the prospect, and she felt that the pang of losing her husband could scarcely be greater than this. She had then still this dear mother to turn to for sympathy and consolation; -- now, she felt that if she lost her, she should indeed be alone upon the earth; and she wept in the wretchedness of her heart, to think that she had still her child to enchain her affections to life.

"I must pray to be spared for her sake," she cried; "and yet in a little while she, too, may be snatched away, for it seems as if I were doomed to lose every thing. God's holy will be done! Even this agony, I know, will pass! Let me think, then, only of the life beyond, -- for even these worst of sorrows are but for a moment!"

If once the afflicted mind can realize this idea, -- can feel indeed that the troubles of this life, from their exceeding brevity, are only important in relation to eternity, according as they fit our souls by patience here for bliss hereafter, or thrust us further from it by a murmuring spirit, -- then the mind at once experiences a calm. The creature feels his helplessness, and in hope and meekness rests upon the mercy and the wisdom of the Most High.

Rose ceased to weep; and in that hour of elevated feeling, felt that she could submit to even the loss of her mother without repining, since she must inevitably so soon rejoin her. Her life appeared but as a fleeting dream, as she passed its events in review before her. -- "And as a fleeting dream the remainder of it will pass, -- soon, at the longest; and oh, the sooner the better, if thou leavest me, my mother!" she exclaimed, sinking on her knees by her bedside.

For twelve days and nights, Rose had never left her mother for one half-hour at a time, nor had she laid down to rest; -- her only sleep had been a few minutes snatched at intervals, as she sate in her chair; and Mr. Nevil began to fear that her strength would fail her. But at length the best of cordials was administered, both for body and mind: Mrs. Morgan was pronounced out of danger.

Rose now engaged a nurse to relieve her for the night; and with a mind lightened from its worst cares, she slept for ten hours uninterruptedly; she awoke invigorated, and recommenced her vigils with a gladder heart.

Her cares were rewarded; but the recovery was slow and tedious. She spared no expense for her mother; every luxury that was recommended to tempt the sickly appetite, or suit the delicate digestion, was procured, if possible; yet she was not insensible to the expenses she was incurring, particularly for wine, which was prescribed in large quantities; but so long as she had a guinea in the world, she could not bear to retard her convalescence by considerations such as these. Her mother's annuity was not more than sufficient for her ordinary wants, and Rose would not suffer this to be diminished by such unexpected calls. From her own little fund at the banker's she drew for every extra expense; this, therefore, had now become wofully reduced, although Mr. Nevil kindly persisted in declining any remuneration for his assiduous attendance; but in her gratitude for her beloved parent's restoration. Rose regarded as mere trifles the loss of money and the temporary detriment to her school: time, and industry, and zeal, she trusted, would repair the loss.

At length her mother, though still feeble, was quite convalescent; little Lucy was recalled to their affectionate arms, and the period arrived when Rose might safely reassemble her pupils.

Her first visit was made to the friendly Mr. Bennet. He advanced from behind his counter, and shook hands most cordially with her, congratulating her on again appearing in the world.

"I am desirous of reopening my school, Mr. Bennet; I hope that your daughters will be allowed to return to me next week."

"Oh, yes, certainly they shall," replied her friend; "I shall insist upon it, if need is. But you had better go up stairs, ma'am, and talk to Mrs. Bennet about it. I am afraid though," he added, as he opened the door upon the stairs, "I am much afraid that you will not find her in a very good humour; -- but never mind! The girls shall come to you, I am determined, -- and they wish it. They are fond of you, Mrs. Merrival, -- both of them are."

When Rose entered the parlour upstairs, she perceived directly a change in the character of her reception. Mrs. Bennet made her a stiff curtesy, and coldly requested her to be seated.

Rose notwithstanding opened her business without hesitation; and perfectly unconscious that the ill humour hinted at had any connexion with her errand, was much surprised when Mrs. Bennet replied, "I wish you all success in your school, Mrs. Merrival, but I believe I shall require my daughters at home."

"Oh, I hope not!" exclaimed Rose; "if my first and favourite pupils forsake me, I shall be disheartened indeed! But Mr. Bennet assured me -- "

"Mr. Bennet must allow me to manage my daughters my own way. He has tired me out on this subject already; and though, ma'am, to oblige him, I may allow my girls to be with you another quarter, I must beg that you will not reckon upon them any longer."

"I hope their improvement has satisfied you?" asked Rose, in a hesitating voice. "If there is any thing in my management that you wish altering -- "

"Oh, my opinion is of no consequence," interrupted the stiff and over-dressed mercer's wife. "Mr. Bennet can counsel you better in every thing than me."

"You seem offended with me," said Rose. "I am sure I am perfectly unaware of any cause; but if you will explain it, I shall esteem it a favour; for indeed I have been in every way unfortunate lately, and can ill afford to lose any of my friends."

"All that is very true," replied Mrs. Bennet, somewhat more amiably. "But, as I was saying to my husband yesterday, whenever people are persecuted by one misfortune after another in this way, I always think there must be some good reason for it. People who ought to get on, do get on, -- that's what I think." And Mrs. Bennet gave a complacent glance round her comfortable parlour.

"I am afraid that would be rather an uncharitable way of judging the unfortunate," said Rose, half smiling. "Certainly none of my recent troubles can be said to proceed from myself; -- to sickness and death we are all liable, and that unlucky robbery also might have befallen any of us."

"I do not argue in that way," replied Mrs. Bennet, settling herself in her chair with still more self-satisfaction. "It is always what the unfortunate say, -- but how is it then that we find these things are not common to us all? No one ever robbed me, Mrs. Merrival, and I dare say they never will; -- and as to sickness, when we had the scarlet fever in the house it was as mild as could be, -- and I have never lost, or feared to lose, either my husband or children."

"I can only hope that so much good fortune may continue," said Rose, seeing that an answer was expected.

"I know no reason why it should not, Mrs. Merrival. We are industrious quiet people who harm no one, either in person or in character, ma'am; and you see how comfortable we are. I repeat, that you may depend upon it, prosperity always follows the steps of those who deserve it."

"I hope you do not instil into my pupils' minds so dangerous a doctrine," replied Rose, laughing; for she scarcely believed it possible that Mrs. Bennet should be serious in what she was saying, and supposed her aiming at some species of wit which she was too obtuse to understand.

"I do teach it them!" cried the lady, becoming somewhat irate, "and I will! It is because you are likely to teach them very different sentiments from what I approve, that I object to them going back to you."

"But, mamma," said a little girl, who had remained unnoticed, playing with her doll in a corner, "you promised, and so did 'pa, that when sisters left school, I should go instead. I like you, Mrs. Merrival, and so do 'pa and sisters; and I want to go to school!"

Rose caressed the child, who had advanced close up to her while she spoke; but Mrs. Bennet, rising angrily, took her by the arm, and put her out of the room. Then returning to her seat, struggling to recover her dignity and composure, she resumed, in an affected tone: "I am sorry for you, Mrs. Merrival. Benevolence and philanthropy require that we should be sorry for widows, -- particularly poor ones. But I find that our systems of education do not very well agree, and I cannot promise you any of my daughters after this next quarter. Nevertheless, if you really deserve success, as you seem to say, I have no doubt that you will obtain it, and do very well."

"My dear madam," said Rose, with more surprise than indignation, "can you really suppose that the world is so governed, that success is the invariable reward of desert, and misfortune a proof of unworthiness I Your daughter Alice knows some lines of Pope to a very different purpose:

'But virtue perhaps is starved, while vice is fed!
What then? Is the reward of virtue bread?'

"Lines, indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Bennet, swelling with rage; "what insolence! to tell me such a thing to my face! I understand your application, madam: you are virtue, are you, and I am vice! Vastly good! We shall see what Mr. Bennet will say to that. A pretty world you would make of it! It would be justice, would it not, to starve virtue and feed vice! And you dare to teach such Popish doctrines to my daughters, do you? I shall warn my friends, I can tell you, ma'am;--we'll have no Pope's doctrines in Woburn! A pretty discovery, indeed!"

Rose had in vain tried to make her explanations heard, -- to shew how the poet had intended to direct the mind to look beyond this world for its rewards and punishments. She was not listened to. But when Mrs. Bennet paused for breath, repeating, with lifted hands, "a pretty discovery, indeed!" she could not restrain herself from open laughter, so ludicrous appeared the mistake of the angry lady, in supposing that the "Pope" she quoted was the Pope of Rome.

Mrs. Bennet gazed in astonishment to find herself laughed at. Rose apologized and explained, and apologized again, and then dexterously diverting the conversation into other channels, she contrived in a quarter of an hour more to calm the pompous lady's exasperation, and induce her even to coldly repeat her expressions of good will, and the promise that her daughters should attend school on the Monday following, for one quarter more.

At the houses of her other pupils, Rose experienced various receptions; but when the opening day arrived, she found with surprise and disappointment, that seven scholars only assembled in her room.

What could be the reason of this I Rose puzzled herself in vain with conjectures; but Mrs. Morgan, who was very shrewd, and not often wrong in her judgments, hinted to her daughter, that Mrs. Bennet and some others of the mothers of Woburn, were certainly jealous of the interest which their husbands had taken in her at the time of the robbery; and thus the mischief which that affair had done, and might yet do, was incalculable.

However dispirited, Rose relaxed not in her efforts to please, and performed her duties so strictly, as to have ensured, according to Mrs. Bennet's doctrines, a rich harvest of success. But with her hopes and confidence shaken, and her little capital greatly diminished. Rose had some trouble to keep up her spirits, and wait in patience for better times.

The quarter ended, and there were no better hopes for the next. It became known that the Bennets were to leave. "The school then was evidently falling off: there must be some reason for it," said the goodnatured public.

Few of her friends were faithful to her cause, but Mr. Nevil still spoke everywhere in her favour, and the same kind public began sneeringly to whisper that perhaps he meant to marry her. But before this rising rumour had reached the ears of either of the parties concerned, a new change occurred in the prospects of our heroine.

A letter with half a dozen post marks, and a demand for as many shillings of postage, was brought to Rose. Shillings did not abound; and she hesitated, purse in hand, whether or not she would take it in at such a cost. Curiosity prevailed, however. It was an Indian letter, and must be upon business; though what she could not guess.

She and her mother, as many wiser people have done, exhausted conjecture before they broke the seal; and dallied, -- I presume, to prolong the pleasure, as the cat does with a captured mouse, -- with the certainty that was in their hands. The letter itself, without the comments and interjaculatory phrases of the mother and daughter, I will lay before my readers.

"Calcutta, March 17th.

"My dear Madam, -- You will, I doubt not, be surprised at any communication from me. What would I not give to be able to observe for myself whether, as you proceed with the perusal of it, that surprise is mingled most with pleasure or with indignation!

"You bade me forget you. I have tried to do so -- for upwards of two years I have tried, but in vain: my beautiful friend is still the companion of my daily thoughts. Mrs. Merrival, I cannot forget you, or cease to wish that you had never left this land, or that you had never seen it. Your departure made me wretched, this you know; but time has not reconciled me to my loss. Will you not return?

"You start; but I repeat my question. Will you not return? -- to Calcutta? -- to me?

"I know not what has been your history since we parted, but I feel it probable that you are neither very affluent, nor very happy. Then, if you do not abhor me, will you not be better here! The charge of your dying husband, to protect his widow and his child, presses often upon my memory. But how can I obey the tender injunction, unless you aid me?

"Listen, then, favourably now, to the prayer which formerly I made to you in vain. Be mine! Then in its fullest sense, I will redeem my promise to my friend; I will become the protector of his wife and child, by making them my own.

"Time must of necessity have assuaged your grief; you will hear my proposal with different feelings now. You will come to me; I cannot suffer myself to doubt it. You will think it, for your little daughter's sake, your -duty; and on my part, I will so act that you cannot fail to give me your love -- the sole reward I seek.

"How gladly, were it in my power, would I hasten to your feet to plead my cause in glowing words, instead of through this chilling medium. But this is impossible, and I have the less scruple in inviting you t6 come out to me, because the voyage for yon is no new enterprise, -- you will see in it neither the terrors nor the difficulties which might deter others.

"If you have read thus far with patience, you will pardon me if I proceed in a more business form than may seem to become one whose sentence is not yet pronounced. If, then, you decide favourably for my wishes, may I beg of you to occasion me no needless delay or suspense. Why even should you write, if you can be in readiness to return in the ship which conveys this to you. The 'Dolphin' is a comfortable vessel, and its able commander, Captain Pierce, will pay you every attention. I have led him to expect that a relation of mine would place herself under his protection for the voyage, and if you merely name me to him, it will be a sufficient introduction. Need I say with what eagerness I shall watch for the arrival of the ship? Oh, do not prepare for me a bitter disappointment!

"Whatever sum of money you may need for your voyage, and the settlement of your affairs in England, Messrs. Kay and King, Lombard Street, are instructed to advance you; and for future arrangements your friends may fearlessly trust your interests to me, and your little Lucy, I repeat, shall ever be regarded as my own child. Come, then, beloved one, and test as you will the devoted affection of

"Yours ever,

"Julian Everard."

The excited feelings with which this letter was perused and reperused by Rose and her mother, may well be imagined. The habits, the hopes, the plans, the home, which had seemed so surely theirs an hour before, with a few words were shaken to their foundations: a new world, as it were, arose to view. Should she -- should she turn from all that she was becoming accustomed to, and return to the country and the pleader which she had lately so eagerly left?

Rose pondered, resolved, renounced, and again resumed her resolves; her mother wept, but advised, and urged, and entreated her to accept the generous proposals of Mr. Everard; then wept again and again, and her tears neutralized the effect of her words. Rose threw herself into her arms, and declared she would not leave her.

The whole day passed in such agitating conversations; but at night each took counsel of her pillow, and as the mind sees most clearly in the dark and silent hour, each soon believed that she had resolved on the only course of conduct proper to pursue, and resigned herself to slumber with a heart relieved from the heavy burden of indecision. Mrs. Morgan, on her side, devoutly thanked God that so fair a prospect once more opened for her daughter and grand-daughter, and prayed that she might not let one selfish thought diminish her joy at such a change of life for those she so much loved. Rose, on the contrary, felt persuaded that no possible circumstances, no advantage, however great, for herself, or even her child, ought to tempt her to forsake her parent. Her recent illness arose vividly to her mind.

"If I had not been near to nurse her," she considered, "how desolate had she been! No, no, my mother, I never will forsake you. I was a daughter before I was a parent; my imperative duty to the best of mothers must be fulfilled, even at the loss of every merely worldly advantage to my child."

And her resolve was, to persist in remaining in England, however strongly urged to the contrary.

But the daylight again seemed to confuse their understandings; the arguments on either side lost their simplicity; things were to be taken into account which had escaped notice before; yet a decision must be made, and that promptly.

Mrs. Morgan would only look on the bright side of the picture. She dwelt on the strength of Mr. Everard's attachment, the liberality of his conduct, the certainty of a finished education, and subsequent provision for little Lucy, and the happiness she should feel in knowing that her daughter was not only secure from the sickening struggle with poverty, but living in the enjoyment of every luxury.

To all this what had Rose to oppose I Though not now loving Mr. Everard, she believed that she could do so. But -- she must forsake her mother.

Mrs. Morgan then brought her to acknowledge that their prospects of gaining a comfortable independence were poorer than they had yet been; that at no crisis could such an offer be more acceptable, -- that it seemed, in fact, an intervention of Providence to rescue them from ruin.

Rose was silenced for awhile, then with a brightening look she recalled some words of Mr. Everard, when she was still in India, implying that she could have her mother to live with her. This idea, however, Mrs. Morgan would not entertain for a moment. She was too old to be transplanted to another climate, she said; her bones should lie beside her husband's bones, whenever God should please to call her to His rest.

Anxious for some unbiassed opinion, they summoned the benevolent Mr. Bennet to their domestic council; and he was so ardent in his congratulations at Mrs. Merrival's good fortune, and so struck with admiration of the gentleman's letter, and so blind to any sort of difficulty about the old lady's remaining in England, that it would have appeared that there could not possibly be two opinions in the matter.

At any rate, Mr. Everard's cause was victorious. Captain Pierce was written to, and the sailing day, wind and weather permitting, they learnt was in a fortnight's time.

All was now hurry, bustle, confusion, and preparation. And when Hose Merrival, with her little Lucy, embarked in the "Dolphin," she had scarcely had leisure to feel the pain of parting. She did, however, feel humbled with the consciousness that interest, not affection, was leading her across the ocean, to make vows of love and obedience to a second husband.

CHAPTER X.

"Man is a promise-breaker from the womb,
And goes a promise-breaker to the tomb;
What need we instance here the lover's vow,
The sick man's purpose, or the great man's bow?
The truth by few examples best is shown.
Instead of many that are better known."

Wordsworth.

As the voyage drew towards its close, the heart of Rose was oppressed with a sadness, against which she vainly endeavoured to struggle.

She ceased not to gaze upon those shores of India, at every moment more distinctly seen, from which she had, a few years since, fled in so much despondency and unhappiness; and as she gazed, the feelings and griefs of that period were recalled, till her bosom felt rent anew with agony; and it rather seemed to her excited mind, that she was returning to the grave of her dead husband, that hastening to the arms of a bridegroom.

She shuddered: her whole mind revolted from the idea as it now presented itself, -- and she would have given worlds to be back again in her humble home at Woburn, weeping and finding consolation on her mother's bosom. But it was too late to retract; she felt that, circumstanced as she was, it was impossible -- quite impossible! Yet she was tormented by the demand of her conscience, whether she were not indeed sinful, with feelings of love still clinging so fondly to the dead, to take vows of devotion to another: and, unable to recover her composure, she prayed to God so to guide her trembling footsteps through her difficulties, that she never might be robbed of her peace of mind or self-respect.

Rose had put aside her widow's weeds before her embarkation, but had adopted a very simple and sober costume during the voyage, wishing to attract as little notice as possible. Now, however, she had prepared for the landing, by dressing both herself and her little girl with much care and elegance; she thought it but a due attention to Mr. Everard, with whom, in constantly increasing trepidation, she expected so speedy an interview.

New thoughts then disquieted her. She feared lest he might find her changed, -- or that he had deceived himself into fancying her prettier or more agreeable than she really was, and shrunk in fancy from his glance of disappointment. But the imagination of Rose might have spared her this mortification. Her's was the combined beauty of feature and expression, -- and neither time nor sorrow had yet impaired, though they had somewhat changed, its character. And so youthful did she still appear, that it would have been difficult for any one to believe that already two-and-thirty years had rolled over the head of the lovely woman who sat there revolving all these things in her mind, while deep sadness, crimson blushes, and troubled clouds of anxiety, ruled her features in succession.

Meanwhile, the noise and confusion of the disembarkation increased every minute, -- friends and servants, carriages, and palanquins with their swarthy and almost naked bearers, thronged the "Bhunder" more and more densely, while the deck of the "Dolphin" resounded with the ceaseless tread of hurrying feet; the air being filled with shouts and cries, in at least a dozen different languages, above which the shrill reiterated demand of "Palkee, sahib, palkee?" from those who had these coffin-like conveyances for hire, was ever distinctly heard.

Little Lucy, with childish impatience, had repeated for the twentieth time, "Mamma, every one is going away out of the ship! When shall we go, mamma V and still the anxious eye of Rose had, not discovered Mr. Everard among the crowd.

She felt her situation very awkward, and became at length seriously uneasy and embarrassed. She had twice asked Captain Pierce if any one had inquired for her, but receiving a hurried negative, she had shrunk back again, to wait and watch in feverish expectation.

"What could have happened? she asked herself repeatedly. "Mr. Everard might be ill or absent, but yet it was very strange that there was neither letter nor messenger from him." Her heart sunk; she could have wept with chagrin; and a sort of shame that she had placed herself so much at the mercy of one, upon whose consideration for her feelings it appeared that she had so little reason to confide.

At length a comparative stillness succeeded to the Babel-like confusion of the past hours.

Captain Pierce thought the last of his passengers had departed, when his eye fell with some surprise upon Rose, who was advancing towards him with hesitating steps.

"Mrs. Merrival! -- I beg your pardon! Can I do anything to serve you?"

"Thank you. I am very awkwardly placed, Captain Pierce. I expected most confidently that my friends would have met me. I cannot account for it. Mr. Everard -- I fear he must be ill -- or -- "

"No, ma'am: I have the pleasure of assuring you that your relative is quite well."

"Has he then been here? -- has he inquired for me?" interrupted Rose eagerly.

"No, ma'am. I was speaking to a gentleman of Calcutta, who happened to name him, and I inquired if he was well, -- expecting with you, that of course we should have seen him here. But had you not better now proceed to his house? From what he said to me before the voyage, I am sure he will expect you there as soon as he knows of the 'Dolphin's' arrival."

Hose hesitated: but no better plan suggested itself to her mind, and she decided on proceeding thither unannounced, rather than endure longer suspense; and entering a hired palanquin with her frightened and wondering little girl, she closed the sliding shutters, and was soon carried at the customary quick trot, with an accompaniment of distressing grunts and groans, to the handsome bungalow of Mr. Everard.

To the inquiries of her bearers, she received the annoying answer, "Sahib gone out."

Rose questioned further, and finding that Mr. Everard's return was expected very shortly, she resolved to await him; and leading little Lucy by the hand, was quickly ushered into a large and handsome drawing-room.

A quarter of an hour passed; during which suspense became almost intolerable: she grew restless, and a little offended, but replied the while mechanically to her child's raptures of marvelling admiration at the many novelties of furniture and ornament which abounded in the apartment.

At the expiration of the time named, she heard footsteps approaching, and felt the blood rush to her cheeks and brow as she rose hastily from her seat, murmuring, "Now for this meeting!"

The door opened, and to her surprise, it was a lady who entered.

She was a strikingly handsome woman, but her beauty was of a haughty and somewhat stern character. She addressed our heroine with courtesy, though somewhat of the coldest, and subjected her at the same time to a gaze of keen scrutiny.

"You inquired, I am informed, madam, for Mr. Everard; but in his absence I shall be happy to serve you, if it is my power."

"You are very polite, ma'am. But I believe Mr. Everard is expected home very soon. I wish to await him."

"Certainly; as you please," replied the stranger, seating herself at some distance from Rose, and continuing to examine both her and Lucy with considerable curiosity. She did not suffer silence to remain long, however, but in an inquiring tone remarked, '• You appear to be strangers in Calcutta, ma'am. I conclude you and your little girl to be among the new arrivals."

"We have only landed this morning from the 'Dolphin,'" said Rose; "but I have been here formerly."

"Indeed! You return then probably to rejoin your husband I Is it long since he has seen your blooming daughter? Her English complexion is quite refreshing to look upon."

Rose in vain attempted to reply at each pause of her interrogator. Her voice had quite failed her; her colour went and came successively; and, to conceal her painful emotion, she bent down, and kissed her little Lucy's white forehead.

The stranger resumed: "You probably bring letters of introduction to Mr. Everard? He will be happy to serve you, I am sure. Or perhaps, as you have been in India before, he may be an old friend!" There was no reply from Rose; and beckoning to the little Lucy, the lady addressed her next question to her. "Do you remember Calcutta, my dear?"

"No; I was quite a very little girl," she answered; "and I don't recollect Mr. Everard either, -- only he gave me this gold chain;" and she looked proudly down at the trinket with which she had been adorned in compliment to the donor.

"Indeed!"' said the stranger coldly, and turning again to Rose, "May I enquire. madam," she asked, "if you are related to Mr. Everard? I have not been informed of your name; but in that case, it will probably not unknown to me."

"I am Mrs. Merrival, a widow," replied Rose; then added with crimson blushes, "I presume, of course, Mr. Everard expects me!"

"If so," returned the lady still more frigidly, "I am not aware of it; nor is your name the least familiar to me."

A painful and awkward silence followed. The ladies glanced furtively at each other, equally puzzled and embarrassed, and in doubt as to the position of the other. Rose, however, uneasy as she was, could bear anything better than continued silence under the keen dark eye of the stranger, and she said in a hesitating voice, "I had not anticipated that Mr. Everard would have any visitor; or perhaps, ma'am, you reside here altogether?"

"Most certainly I do!" returned the lady, with a look and tone of haughty indignation and surprise.

"A relation, of course T' continued Rose, becoming catechist in her turn. "May I take the liberty, ma'am, of enquiring with whom I converse? I see no personal resemblance, so I presume you are not Mr. Everard's sister; but any connexion of his, if you reside with him, you must certainly be aware, will be an object of much interest to me."

"Indeed!" again exclaimed the lady with heightened colour. Then rising from her seat, in a tone of contemptuous civility she added, "I am greatly honoured, certainly, by being of so much interest to Mrs. Merrival; but before I proceed to shew upon what grounds I may claim so high a favour, will you be pleased, ma'am, to inform me if you have undertaken your voyage to India solely to visit Mr. Everard?"

"This is very strange and very embarrassing I" said poor Rose, rising also. "I know not what to answer, not knowing the position in which you stand. I wish to heaven Mr. Everard would return!"

"I wish it too, madam, if you are resolved that this mystery shall not be explained until his arrival. But I demand to know, Mrs. Merrival, and I have a right to demand it, what business you can have with Mr. Everard of sufficient importance to bring you, if I rightly understand, from England expressly to meet him; and what is your reason for supposing that we expected you here?"

"You expect! Who are you, then? For God's sake tell me, madam!" cried Rose, turning pale, as a terrible apprehension crosseed her mind.

"Are we for ever to question each other without receiving an answer?" cried the lady angrily, with a slight stamp of her foot. "But I, at least, have no reason to be ashamed of my connexion with Mr. Everard. Seeing me here, I am also at a loss to imagine who you can suppose me to be, but the mistress of the mansion. You speak, madam, to Mrs. Everard."

A rapid step approached: the room door was thrown open, and, flushed and excited, Everard himself stood on the threshold. He looked quickly from one lady to the other; he saw the proud and angry light in the eye of the last speaker. The emotions of Rose were too conflicting to be so quickly read. She was deadly pale, her lips were parted, and her eyes wandered wildly from one to another.

Everard walked hastily up to her and took her hand; but she snatched it away with a look of horror. He then, with an effort at calmness, turned to the haughty beauty, who, with her tall form drawn up to its full height, and wrath and disdain upon her lip, kept her dark and piercing eye fixed steadily upon Rose. "Leonora," he said, "this lady wishes to have some conversation with me in private, you will therefore oblige me by leaving us at present. I will afterwards explain to you so much of the business which brings her here as may be necessary for you to know. Be seated, Mrs. Merrival, I beg of you."

"No, sir!" cried Rose, shrinking again from his touch, as he would have handed her to a couch. "No, sir; I sit not here until this dreadful mystery is explained! That lady, Mr. Everard, has called herself your wife! I adjure you in the name of all things sacred to answer me in one word -- Is she, as she says?"

He bowed his head, and covered his face with his hands.

"One word, in mercy!" cried Rose, in a shrill piercing tone.

"She is!" replied Everard. "But now listen to me, Rose -- "

"No, sir -- it is enough! I listen to you no more!" she returned, while her slight figure assumed as much of dignity and womanly pride as her rival herself could manifest.

"That fatal word, Mr. Everard, is the last you need ever address to me. You have deceived, betrayed, destroyed rue; and I feel full surely have broken a bruised heart! Yet, may God forgive you!"

He sought to answer; but she stopped him with an impatient gesture: -- "You have cruelly mocked us already," she exclaimed; "seek not to do so more with hollow explanations! Come, come, my child, this is no resting place for us!"

With a slow firm pace she crossed the long apartment; it was only as she approached Mrs. Everard, who stood in her path towards the door, that her steps faltered. She paused, -- she looked steadily into her countenance, and slowly said, "You are very beautiful! but, oh, that is a poor excuse for his desolating treachery! May you, madam, never know such misery as you have caused: but if you have unconsciously injured me, oh, think of your victim with pity!"

"I have yet to know on what grounds you claim ray pity," returned Mrs. Everard scornfully. But Rose was walking onwards ere she had herself ceased speaking, and now closed the door behind her.

The eyes of the husband and wife met, and replying to the wrath which was flashing in her's, "Leonora," he said, "you have no cause to complain, -- I swear it to you! But that poor creature -- God knows what is to become of her! Let me pass! she must not leave the house thus, -- wretched, friendless, and alone! Let me pass, I say, Leonora!"

"Hear me first!" said she, in a cold but emphatic tone. "If you follow her, you need return no more to me! I begin to understand her story now; your excitement interprets it! She tells me she is a widow. I presume, then, that being recently released from unwilling bondage to a despised husband, she flies hither, feeling, doubtless, a just confidence that she will find a protector more agreeable to her wishes in you!"

"Leonora, you basely wrong her!" cried Everard. "I repeat, that you have not the very slightest cause of complaint; and there lives not a woman more pure in every thought, or more perfect in love as a wife, than Rose Merrival! Poor soul! Frank was a very idol to her! Would that he had never died, -- or, would that I -- "

"That you -- " echoed his wife sarcastically. "Pray continue, Mr. Everard! Perhaps you wish that you had succeeded him?"

Without reply Everard, hastily brushing past her, quitted the apartment. Pity for his victim was at the moment predominant in his heart; he had not time to think of his own position, -- he only wished to follow her, and alleviate, if it were possible, the misery he had inflicted.

He hastily crossed the vestibule, and having done so, immediately perceived the object of his pursuit leaning, as if for support, against the massive pedestal of a time-piece. Her head was thrown back, and her right hand pressed upon her brow. Her bonnet had fallen at her feet, and her face thus unconcealed, betrayed a wild and agonized expression, which struck horror to the heart of Everard. Little Lucy, too, looked frightened, and stood grasping her mother's gown, and looking up earnestly in her face, while large tears gathered in her dark grey eyes.

Both started from their position as Everard approached; and Rose, catching the hand of her child, instantly attempted to hurry on; but her limbs tottered beneath her, and refused their office. She was forced to avail herself of her former support; a sickly shudder shook her frame; she became deadly pale, and but for the vicinity of him who had so cruelly injured her, she must have fallen to the ground.

She only endured his arm around her for a moment, then quickly and indignantly freeing herself from him, she exclaimed, "Leave me, I entreat you, Mr. Everard!" But overcome by the effort of speaking, she burst into tears.

These tears, perhaps, saved her from delirium. Until that moment a confused and terrible impression of overwhelming ruin had pressed upon her mind, without form or shape indeed, but seeming to consume her brain like an inward fire; now a woman's weakness brought relief to her agony: the tears, having once burst forth, would not be checked; they continued to stream freely, while her face bowed down between her hands, and her whole frame trembling violently, she seemed to lend attention to Everard, -- while yet she could but imperfectly comprehend what he eagerly uttered. "You must listen to me, Mrs. Merrival, -- you must listen to me, though you hate me, as you have cause! I cannot apologize to you, -- I cannot excuse myself. I have injured you too deeply for forgiveness! Yet, no I you were always gentle and kind; and your religion, I have heard you say, teaches forgiveness of your enemies. Do not then hate me, Rose! say that you will at least try to forgive me!"

"My child, my child!" sobbed Rose, pressing the little one closer to her; and the unconscious eloquence of the reply shot a new pang of remorse into Everard's heart, and for a moment compelled him to silence.

"It is true," he resumed; "I have injured your child scarcely less than yourself! But, so far as it is yet possible, I am willing, nay, anxious, to repair my wrong. I can no longer, indeed, fulfil the offers which I made you in the cursed letter which, I presume, alone has brought you hither; but be not unjust in your anger, Mrs. Merrival! Consider how little probable it seemed to me that my proposition would over reach you! I loved you, -- by heavens I loved you only when I wrote, and desired no other happiness than to make you mine. But, hear me, Rose! No sooner was it despatched than some confounded chance brought hither a woman, who, though in everything a contrast to yourself, by that very contrast was more likely to gain my heart! You have seen my wife -- you have confessed her queenly beauty! Remember, you were distant; it was uncertain if my letter would ever reach your hands; no less uncertain, if it did so, whether you would consent to my proposals, or whether even you were still free to do so! I did not pause to argue thus however, for before I was aware of my danger, my heart was Leonora Maynard's. I told her so, and from that moment I was infatuated! I saw not the reverse of the picture. I quite forgot that you might receive my letter, and act upon it; nay, I fully persuaded myself that it would not be so. My explanation will not justify me before you, I know it; but at least you will believe me, when I assure you that since my marriage I have been wretched, in the dread of what has this day occurred. Nothing but an unavoidable accident would have prevented me from sparing you at least the scene you have just undergone. But all this is useless now! Repentance is my portion; but, if you will allow me, I will still be you friend. Of course, your wish will be to return to England as soon as possible, and I need not say that the means of doing so shall be at your disposal. If there is any other thing in which I can serve you, I confess your claim upon me, -- you must freely command me."

"Speak to me no more!" cried Rose, whose spirit was awakened from its trance by the gradually increasing coldness of Everard's tone. "Do you, who have insulted, and irreparably injured mo, dare to speak of doing me a service? Service! -- you have placed me in a strait, sir, from which death only can deliver me. You have brought us from the home where we had found a rest, and from my mother's tender companionship and care, -- and for what? Great God, to what a condition am I reduced!" she continued, with a distracted air, -- "a rejected woman, a repudiated wife, a dupe, a beggar, a wandering outcast! This you have made me; and now, what do I here? Your presence is hateful to me; it is abhorrent -- insulting! Away, sir! it is cruel in you to look upon me."

Feeble as she had been a few minutes before, in the energy of her present feelings, she caught up her child in her arms, and rushed rapidly down the stairs.

"Whither are you going?" cried Everard, following closely on her steps. "For Heaven's sake stop, Mrs. Merrival. Where is it you would rush to? You must not, indeed, leave my house in this state; -- it is madness! The noon-tide sun is glaring now upon the streets, -- what would you do? Stop that lady!" he cried to the native servants, reclining or crouching on their mats in the verandah. -- "Stop her, I say, rascals!"

The men sprung to their feet just in time to detain our unhappy heroine, as, without aim or object, and regardless of the glaring light and intolerable heat of the sun, reflected from the white walls of Chinam on every side, she was rushing into the open street. When she felt their detaining hand, she uttered a shrill, wild scream, and bursting from them, instantly fell insensible upon the ground.

Everard saved the terrified Lucy from injury; but he perceived with alarm and anguish-that a thin stream of blood trickled from the mouth of Mrs. Merrival. Either the fall had caused her some bodily injury, or, which seemed more probable, the extreme excitement and suffering of the hour, had occasioned the rupture of a blood vessel.

One of the servants said, that the palanquin of Dr. Beverley had just been seen leaving a neighbouring house, and Everard desired that he might be instantly summoned.

He came, -- and certainly few situations could be more extraordinary than that of Rose, when, the lancet having restored her to consciousness, she found herself, after several years of separation, supported in the arms of the two men who alone had befriended her in the hour of her deepest affliction, and both of whom had loved her, and vainly spoken to her of love.

Her first impulse was to pursue her flight, and recoiling from Everard with an emotion of horror, she started to her feet; but instantly sensible of her inability, she sank down again, wildly pressing her hand upon her brow. Dr. Beverley spoke to her soothingly. Startled again at the sound of his voice, she faintly murmured, -- 

"Oh, wake me from this dream; I know not where I am!"

"You are with friends, dear madam," resumed the Doctor, gently pressing the hand he held. "Remain quite calm and easy: all is well."

"Well? -- no, no; nothing will ever be well with me again!" cried Rose, in a hurried excited tone. "I shall never be well again myself; I feel I shall not: do not deceive me, Doctor. You are Dr. Beverley, are you not? Ah, yes, I know! -- but it is very strange and bewildering; -- do you not think so?"

"Pray do not talk more now, dear madam. Remain quite silent and calm, and you will soon be better."

"How can I be calm?" she cried again, looking fearfully around. "He is there yet! -- cruel, inhuman, away from me!" Then turning with a shudder from Everard towards the wondering physician, she added, in a tone of the deepest pathos. "That blow struck home. I feel it! -- I feel it, my heart and brain! -- But do not publish it," she cried franticly, after a moment's pause, -- "for pity's sake do not talk of it! Frank must not know, -- lie must not! Mischief would come of it, I am sure."

"For Heaven's sake," said the Doctor, in-a low voice to Mr. Everard, as his patient sunk again into a state of insensibility; "tell me what means this incoherent talk? -- and, above all, how comes she here?"

"I cannot tell you now," said Everard, in much agitation. "It is a deuced unlucky business; I wish -- "

"What!" said Beverley, with a quick glance of his keen eye.

"I wish to Heaven she had not come out."

"What could have brought her, poor creature?" said the Doctor, still chafing her wan temples. "Have you seen much of her, Mr. Everard? -- But no, she can only, I suppose, have come by the 'Dolphin,' yesterday? Can you say what induced her to return here? I cannot tell you my amazement when I recognised her."

"I am sure you must have been astonished. Well, it cannot be helped now! -- But what, poor thing, is to be done with her? -- Do you think. Doctor, there is any danger for her life?"

"I cannot speak positively," replied the other; "but there is imminent danger of fever. She must have had some terrible excitement; some sudden shock: she spoke evidently in delirium. Will you not at all explain the cause? -- It cannot, certainly, be merely returning to the scene of her bereavement?"

"Who knows? -- but we cannot possibly talk of this now," said Everard, in much confusion; "let us think rather, Doctor, what is to be done with -- with our poor friend," he added, with some difficulty.

"You had better have a bed immediately prepared; though I would not -- "

"Impossible!" interrupted Everard. '-It will never do for her to remain here. But hush! -- she moves!"

With the same wild start with which she had recovered from her former syncope. Rose again looked round.

"Where is she? -- where is my child?" she cried. "Lucy, come, let us not linger here; my mother will shield us! Poor little one," added she, folding her arms in fancy round her child; "it was for thee only that I did it, and it is all in vain! Beggars and outcasts has he made us! Whose house is this?" she cried franticly. "Is it his? -- I hate it if it is! Ah, yes, he is there; the man that -- "

"Is this never to be put a stop to?" interrupted Everard, turning somewhat angrily to Dr. Beverley. "Are these ravings to be allowed to go on without limit? What, I ask you again, had better be done with her?"

"You do not explain the cause of her aversion to you; you say nothing which can guide any advice. Am I to understand that she is not here as your guest?"

"It is impossible; Mrs. Everard would never permit it. Besides, you hear how she detests me. She will not remain," rejoined the excited Everard.

And Rose's broken speeches indeed continued to confirm the statement. Her cry was still, -- 

"Let us depart!"

"And where will you go?" asked Doctor Beverley very gently. "I will take you any where you wish!"

"To Woburn -- to my mother!"

"You are too ill to go so far to-day: where would you like to go now? -- Will you remain here?"

"Here? -- this is Mr. Everard's house -- he is married! Let us go now, sir, if you please. Where is Lucy?"

"Will come to my house?" said Dr. Beverley. "I am married, too, since I saw you, Mrs. Merrival, and my wife, I am sure, will be happy to receive you as her guest. You have nothing, I suppose, to object to this scheme?" he inquired, turning coldly to Everard.

"Oh, no! it is very kind of you -- very; I will call to-morrow and inquire how she is. Anything in my power that can conduce to her comfort -- excuse me, Dr. Beverley, -- this business has agitated me a good deal; but I will explain it all to you another time. She seems quite delirious, poor thing; no one can make anything at all of her ravings. The palanquin is ready, I see; -- really it is very kind of you, you have relieved me from a most embarrassing position."

All these broken and disjointed sentences were spoken very hurriedly, and with an embarrassment totally foreign to his usual manner, and Dr. Beverley marked it with surprise.

Both, however, now busied themselves in placing the exhausted invalid comfortably in the palanquin.

"Bring the little girl here," Everard called out to a group of servants who had succeeded in amusing her apart from the scene of confusion; but when he would have taken her from their swarthy arms, to lift her into the Doctor's palanquin, she turned from him with a pretty pout.

"You made mamma cry; I do not love you."

At length, to Everard's great relief, the bearers put themselves in motion; and she who had come, at his own petition, thousands of miles to be his bride, he thus sent from his door in an almost dying state.

Was he overwhelmed with remorse? -- alas, no! -- this first impulse of his heart, by the alchemy of selfishness, was changed into irritation against her -- against his wife, -- against Dr. Beverley, -- against the world! -- before which he knew not how to exonerate himself, should the story get abroad.

The more he thought, the more he felt the awkwardness of the dilemma in which he had involved himself. To his wife; to Dr. Beverley; some explanation must be speedily made; -- should it be the truth? He hesitated; but shrunk from making such an exposure, unless it were inevitable. If she dies in this fever, ha reflected, there will be no need of the disclosure. But even he started, when he found himself ardently wishing, from selfish motives, the immediate death of the fair creature he had so lately, after his nature, fondly loved.

But our heroine did not die; and with whatever evasions Mr. Everard may have satisfied his consort and the physician for a time, they were eventually unavailing to save him from exposure and its consequences.

CHAPTER XI.

"Desde la primer desdicha
No hay succeso, ni accidente,
Que otro desdicha no sea;
Que unas à otras succeden,
Herederas de si mismas."

Calderon -- La vida es Sueno.

"What might be best has in't,
However small, some grains of happiness;
And man ne'er drank a cup of earthly sort,
That might not hold another drop of gall."

The Course of Time.

Mrs. Beverley had been a happy wife fur nearly two years, and was a happy mother also of, as she firmly believed, the most beautiful and most intelligent boy who had ever lived but ten brief months in this sunny world. Happiness had not, however, blunted one of the sensibilities of her benevolent and ardent soul.

She received with surprise indeed her husband's abrupt announcement that an invalid lady, an old friend of his, with her child, must be their guest so long as she had need of care; but compassion was stronger in her breast than surprise, and allowed place to no other feeling, until she had herself assisted her to place the unhappy Rose in bed in the coolest room, and had ministered also to the comforts of the wearied and over-excited little Lucy.

When she heard a narrative of the strange adventure of the day, her feeling of tenderness towards the sufferer was only increased. She was familiar with the name of Merrival, -- she knew that the guest her husband had brought her had been beloved by him, -- but she had no room in her pure and trusting heart for jealousy. She confided in him who had vowed at the altar to love and cherish her, with a perfect confidence; and only connected the present with the past, to sympathize more entirely with her husband in his anxiety and distress on hi.s patient's account.

Rose lay for several weeks in a dangerous state, from violent brain fever; but the care of her friends was at length rewarded, -- the light of intellect reawakened in her eye, and the crimson flush of disease forsook her cheek. Sunken and wan indeed was that cheek now, -- her little daughter did not recognize her the first time she was brought to her bedside, but in a few days more, her features resumed something of their natural expression, and she could smile in acknowledgment of the many proofs of even sisterly kindness in Mrs. Beverley; -- oh, how she loved that tender Mrs. Beverley! As she lay feeble and half conscious on the bed of sickness, she deemed her a guardian angel hovering near; -- she felt refreshed whenever she approached; and the sick nurse, and the dark-skinned ayah who officiated under her directions, were transformed by Rose's overwrought fancy into evil spirits contending with this gentle being for the mastery over her.

She told these fancies to her friend, as she; recovered her strength, -- these, and every thing, she confided to her; and pity and gratitude converging to the same point in those two gentle female hearts, the result was a mutual and ardent affection.

It was at her husband's desire that Mrs. Beverley gradually drew from Rose the entire narrative of her connexion with Mr. Everard. It was a story widely different from that which, in the expectation of her death, he had thought fit to give to Dr. Beverley; but if her words could have left a doubt on any mind, Rose had his letter to show in evidence against him.

It was soon apparent that the recovery of her strength would be very slow; the climate, and even the season, were unpropitious, and her spirits were depressed to a degree which deprived her of the hope, and almost of the wish, that they would rally. She was, however, so calm, so patient, so meek, and so grateful, that her very sadness seemed almost to endear her more to these kind friends. Yet Dr. Beverley would sometimes try and chide her for it, and bid her expect better days soon, on the plea that, being at the worst, they must inevitably mend.

"End rather!" said Rose, smiling faintly; "for some good purpose doubtless I have been allowed to recover from the fever; but I feel. Doctor, and know, that my days arc numbered nevertheless."

"You must not indulge such fancies; -- neither you, nor I, know anything of the sort."

"I think I know it," said Rose again. "I always like," she added, with another of her sweet sad smiles, "to trace the purposes of Providence in whatever happens to me; and surely I must have been thus strangely summoned back to these fatal shores, that my dust may repose with that of my husband."

"But it signifies so little where our bodies rest," remarked Dr. Beverley.

"True; but it is a pleasant thought, -- we did so love each other! Do you think, sir," she abruptly added, "that it was a wicked thing in me to consent to marrying Mr. Everard?"

"Decidedly not, my dear Mrs. Merrival; you were quite right. Had he acted as he gave you ample reason to expect he would, you certainly would not have been the less excellent wife to him, because you cherished a tender remembrance of your first partner."'

"You comfort me much," sighed Rose; "for indeed the thought has troubled me; and God knows I have enough to afflict mo, without such doubts as this. I lock round sometimes, and feel helpless as a ship without a rudder, when I try to find what has been the cause of all my miseries. Do you observe, my friends, from the hour of my Lucy's birth, which seemed to be the very pinnacle of happiness, beyond which our wishes knew not how to soar, nothing but misfortunes have succeeded each other without intermission; till now, but for your exceeding kindness, I must have been utterly overwhelmed. I thought, when I embarked on this fatal voyage, that the tide at length had turned, and that I and my child should at least be freed for ever from the withering hand of poverty. You see what a delusive hope it was! I dare not look now into the abyss before me; for though I may find a speedy rest in death, what -- what have I not to dread for my child! -- what to hope, but that the hand of charity may save her from destruction!"

"We will not forsake her, should you leave her destitute," said Dr. Beverley feelingly, while the tears of his wife, as she bent to kiss the trembling lips of the sufferer, confirmed his promise. "We will not forsake her, if she needs our aid; but since we are upon this subject, my dear friend, let me say to you what has long been upon my mind; you may yet secure to your child an independence, if you will; and Mr. Everard deserves no mercy at your hands. The law will award -- "

"Oh, never, never!" interrupted Rose, with a shudder. "If you knew how I shrink from publicity! -- if you knew the depth of shame I feel at my situation, blameless though you would persuade me in your kindness that I have been; -- if you knew -- oh, do not urge it! I could never spend with peace of mind what was intended as a compensation for that peace of mind; -- it is not a thing to be bought or paid for. The disgrace of demanding a price for my injuries, would indeed put the finishing stroke to my long series of misfortunes!"

"Well, well," said the Doctor kindly, "do not agitate yourself; I will not press you further on the subject now, -- but I must tell you that I have already spoken with your friend Mr. Fielding upon the subject, and he most strongly advises the proceeding. Indeed, so evident was its expediency in our eyes, that we have already taken some steps towards bringing the matter to an issue. Do not look so distressed; it shall all be as you wish, when we have had a little further conversation about it; but not now, -- not now." And pressing her hand kindly, he took his leave.

"Now, my dear Mrs. Merrival, you must remain quite still, after this excitement," said his amiable wife. "Try to sleep, and I will sit beside you, reading 'Thalaba,' and the enchanting tale will secure my remaining quiet also."

"How good you both are to me!" murmured Rose, laying her head tranquilly on the cool unruffled pillow, which was placed for her. "What would have become of me, if God had not provided in each of my sorrows and trials, new friends to aid me when least I could expect them! But none ever found sweeter, dearer, kinder friends, in their distress, than you have been to me; and I surely think none ever needed them more!"

"And is it not always so?" replied Mrs. Beverley. "The Almighty never gives a cup of unmingled bitter to His creatures; -- something there ever is still to be grateful for, -- something to remind us of the Divine love, -- and in so doing to reconcile us to the afflictions which the same merciful hand has seen fit to deal out to us. But I need not place such truths before your eyes, Mrs. Merrival, -- you have proved them often! Sleep now, my friend, that you may be able to bear the prattle of your lovely little Lucy by and bye."

And Rose tried to sleep, but it was in vain; and they were soon talking again of the subject broached by Dr. Beverley. It was often afterwards discussed; but it is not necessary to follow step by step the arguments which at length prevailed upon Rose to overcome her repugnance to commencing legal proceedings against Mr. Everard.

At first, Mrs. Beverley had sympathised too entirely with Rose's feelings on the subject, very effectually to second her husband and Mr. Fielding in their efforts: but by degrees their arguments convinced her that this was a case, in which fastidious delicacy of feeling ought entirely to be sacrificed to justice and expediency: and from that time, her persuasions became most powerful auxiliaries to the reasonings of the gentlemen.

It was urged that Mr. Everard could hardly have borne himself worse in the matter, -- that he had ceased even to show compassion and tenderness towards the unoffending victim of his caprice. At first, indeed, he had called daily to inquire after her health, and though his visits were short and his manner embarrassed and unsatisfactory, Dr. Beverley had believed that his interest in their invalid friend was sincere and grounded, like his own, on former intimacy, and her present sufferings. But on the morning when he announced the favourable change which had taken place in his patient's symptoms, he was painfully undeceived. Disappointment -- it was not to be mistaken -- disappointment and vexation were clearly legible in his handsome countenance. He attempted, it is true, to express "his happiness, his delight" at the news, but the words fell coldly and constrainedly from his lips, and he quickly took his leave.

The impression that all was not right in Mr. Everard's conduct, which the scene at his own bungalow had first originated in the physician's mind, was now reawaked and confirmed; and he waited impatiently until Rose could bear conversation on the subject.

When he had learnt from her the true cause of her return to India, and found, too, how destitute she was, his indignation knew no bounds; and, as he told her, he immediately consulted Mr. Fielding, as to the best line of conduct to be pursued.

Both together, in conformity with his advice, waited upon Mr. Everard, and appealed to his honour, his justice, and his compassion, to induce him to make some adequate provision for Mrs. Merrival. But this, which in the first days of his remorse he had himself thought of doing, he was no longer inclined to. He had brought himself to believe that Rose would certainly die, and thus deliver him from his annoying predicament; and her recovery, together with his wife's ill-humour ever since the unfortunate rencontre, had thrown him into a state of irritation which had seemed hitherto foreign to his character.

He could not brook either the reproaches of the man of business, or the appeals of Dr. Beverley to his better feelings, and haughtily inquired their right to interfere.

Warm words arose. The Doctor's bursts of eloquent indignation were met with bitter and sarcastic replies, and insinuations as to the moving spring of his own compassion, -- and Mr. Fielding's dry and uncompromising censures enraged him still more. He was a man whom he disliked, and for whose intellect he had a supreme contempt. From him he would hear nothing; and all separated with a feeling that they could meet no more as friends.

After this, some intercourse had been attempted by letter, -- Mr. Fielding conducting the correspondence on the part of Rose; but nothing more satisfactory having resulted from this, than a remonstrance against interference, and a promise from Everard to attend to Mrs. Merrival's demands whenever she should make them in person, no further communication was attempted on either side.

It was at this period that Mrs. Beverley, roused to indignation, undertook to persuade her friend to the course so strenuously advised. She led her to turn her gaze from the past to that rayless future which she confessedly shrank from contemplating: she left Rose herself to paint the picture; -- it was an undistinguishable mass of shadow, without one sunbeam to illuminate it.

The only plan she could form was a vague idea that she might obtain the charge of some children or an invalid for the homeward voyage: and if this led to no further results, she could find her way back to her feeble mother, and try to labour for the support of herself and her little Lucy as she had done before. But her health she feared would soon fail altogether, and leave her a burden to that mother, rather than an aid.

"And your child?"

Rose burst into tears. Lucy was sitting at her feet at the time, and amusing herself with twining her long golden curls around her little fingers. The mother pressed her to her bosom, and looked upwards, as if commending her to the care of Heaven.

"Yes, Heaven will hear your prayers for her," said Mrs. Beverley, in reply to that look; "but I need not say that it is our duty to make also the best earthly provision we can for our children. My beautiful boy! what is there I would not sacrifice for thee?" she exclaimed, pressing his rosy cheek to her's with much emotion.

"And I?" returned Rose, surprised at detecting reproach in her tone; -- "do you think I would do less for my treasure? Would I not gladly have died even in the midst of happiness to secure life's blessings for her?"

"And yet you scruple to sacrifice your feelings, -- to inflict one wound upon your womanly dignity or pride, -- to secure this child from all the incalculable evils of utter poverty!"

There was a moment's silence, and then Rose replied,

"It shall be done!"

Her voice was steady, but very low, and a tear glittered in her eye.

"You are right, my friend," said Mrs. Beverley, "and you will live to think so, if you can still feel a doubt of it now."

"I feel," answered Rose, "that it will be an incalculable blessing in my dying hour, should I be enabled to leave her provided for. I see no other way of securing this. My scruples were selfish, but they are conquered now! Kiss me, my own Lucy!"

"You love me very much to-day, dear mamma!" said the child, throwing her arms round her mother's neck. "But do not cry for love, -- it makes me cry too."

Her consent thus yielded, the subject was rarely again mentioned in her presence: but meantime the trial was in progress. The facts being known to the reader, it is needless to weary him with details of the proceedings; but the case excited much attention; for Mr. Everard was universally known in Calcutta; and many besides had been deeply interested in favour of the plaintiff, who was still remembered.

In the course of the investigations, Mrs. Merrival's council brought to light the early story of Mr. Everard's somewhat similar treatment of another lady, and he availed himself of this to place his character in the most odious light before the court, and roused against him universal indignation. The jury, after the evidence produced, could not feel the least hesitation as to their sentence, but the amount of damages to be awarded led to considerable discussion. At length, however, their decision was pronounced. Julian Everard was ordered to pay to the plaintiff the sum of  £3000.

During the several weeks that the trial was pending, poor Mrs. Merrival's health had scarcely improved, and Dr. Beverley became extremely anxious for its termination, that she might leave the enfeebling climate of the east. The voyage might, he told his wife, restore her; but it now seemed the only chance, and, he greatly feared, a poor one. Rose, too, felt her danger, and though almost indifferent on her own account, she was impatient to return to England, that she might confide her child to her mother's watchful guardianship.

When the result of the trial was told her, she sank upon her knees, and fervently exclaimed, -- 

"Thank God! it has not been done in vain! The spirit of my child will not be crushed and bowed beneath the grinding hand of poverty!"

* * * * *

The reader may judge if Mr. Everard's domestic happiness, with his proud and austere partner, was likely to be increased by the exposures and the result of the legal proceedings; for she never forgave him either for having so long loved another, nor for having placed her, as his wife, in so unpleasantly conspicuous a position.

But none can feel much sympathy in their fate; so let them make each other unhappy as they will; -- our choice shall be to follow on her homeward way our drooping heroine.

CHAPTER XII.

"Fate aims so many blows to make us fall,
That 'tis in vain to think to ward them all;
And where misfortunes great and heavy are,
Life grows a burden, and not worth our care."

Dryden.

The recent trial for breach of promise of marriage was, as might be supposed, among the prevailing topics of gossip on board the "Triton;" and one of the passengers having recognized our poor invalid, it soon became universally known that she was the heroine of the story.

Every one said that she had been shockingly ill used; every one pitied her, or said they pitied her, and most were really anxious to shew her any kindness in their power. But the officiousness of some, and the less obtrusive sympathy of others, were alike painful to the feelings of Rose. Feeble and nervous from her illness, she shrank sensitively from every species of observation, and as much as in such a situation might be possible, she kept herself secluded, and avoided intercourse with her fellow-passengers.

Time, which under the most favourable circumstances is apt to seem long and heavy in a sea voyage, would now have been intolerably tedious to Rose, but for the companionship of her dear little girl. Though she confessed to herself that her health had already benefited by the change of air, she never for a day lost the impression that she must soon separate from this sole tie to life; and her whole care was divided between the strengthening of her own faith in her Redeemer, and imparting to her little Lucy such religious instruction as her infant mind was able to receive. Often, too, she would love to talk to her of her dear father who was dead, and endeavour to engrave upon her tender memory some permanent impression both of him and of herself; and though Lucy had become the darling and the merry playmate of all on board who were not too much impressed with their own dignity to condescend to find amusement in the prattle of a child, she at any time would joyfully leave her sports and frolic, to sit upon her mother's knee, and hear her talk to her of God.

Except a little rough weather, nothing broke in upon the monotonous existence of the passengers in the "Triton," until she dropped anchor in St. Simon's Bay. Then, how eagerly every one hastened on shore I -- every one but Rose. She, poor soul, had felt ill for a few days previous, and was at this period of general excitement, confined to her berth. Many offered expressions of regret and condolence; but Rose, even had she been as able as they, would have felt no wish to land. Any curiosity that she might have felt, had been gratified often before; and change or amusement she desired not. Her only wish upon earth was to reach England, and confide her child and the little fortune she had at so great a price secured to her, to some safe guardianship, when she should herself be called upon to resign it.

The voyage of some terminated at the Cape, and a few new passengers also embarked there; but these things interested not the broken-spirited Rose.

They had been again on their course for two or three days, when feeling better, she yielded to the persuasions of her physician, and accompanied him upon deck. Having arranged her cloak and cushions comfortably around her, this gentleman went at her request to seek for Lucy and bring her to her side. Immediately afterwards, she heard her clear happy voice, exclaiming, "There is mamma! Please, please, sir, put me down; let me go to mamma."

Rose looked up, and saw her little girl in the arms of a tall and remarkably handsome man, who must, she felt at once assured, be one of those who had lately come on board, as she had not noticed him among the passengers before. There was something in the contour of his head, and in the general outline of his figure, that made the blood rush to her cheeks. He spoke -- "Which is your mamma?" and she started at the sound, and crimsoned more deeply still.

He stood before her, and their eyes met. She saw that he too started slightly as they did so; -- and bending quickly to put down the child, ho still detained her for a moment, whispering half playfully as he did so, "Now tell me your name, little goldilocks; tell me your whole name before I let you go."

"Lucy, Lucy Merrival," cried she impatiently, then ran and buried her face in her mother's lap. The stranger's eyes were again fixed intently on her half averted face, and then with a rapid step he walked away.

Rose gazed after him until he was lost to her sight among the group of other gentlemen; she then tried to recover her composure, and after a few minutes forced herself to give her attention to her child. But soon, that strange magnetic power which makes us feel that an eye is fixed upon us though we see it not, impelled her to look up; and she found that the stranger again stood before her.

She tried to speak, but her voice utterly failed her. He saw her emotion, and drawing nearer, said, in tones which she had never forgotten, and which now stirred her heart like a voice from the dead, "You do not recognize me, perhaps?"

"Oh, yes! Mr. Montravers!" gasped Rose.

He sat down beside her, and neither spoke again for about a minute: their thoughts were too busy with the past.

"And this is your child?" asked Montravers at length, drawing Lucy towards him and tenderly kissing her. "Is she your only one?"

"Yes; I never had but her," replied Rose with a sigh.

"She is almost more like your former self than you now are," remarked Montravers. "I fear, I much fear, that you are an invalid?"

"Mamma has been very ill indeed," said Lucy, shaking her head most gravely. "Mamma is often ill now; and good Dr. Beverley cannot make her well any more, because he is in Calcutta."

"Are you going to England alone?" inquired Montravers.

"Yes; I have none -- none to protect me now! Oh! Mr. Montravers, I have suffered much since we parted."

"Have you then regretted it?" asked he quickly, as he bent his penetrating eyes upon her. "But, 'tis vain to ask it, and perhaps cruel. I, too, have suffered much, -- have suffered always!"

"Oh! surely not?" cried- Rose. "Twelve years or more of suffering were surely never allotted to any mortal, unless heinous guilt occasioned it."

"How could it be otherwise in my case?" said Montravers sadly. "You know how utterly alone I was upon the earth, without a single relative; deceived in friendship; wronged in love; having no aptitude for new friendship, and no heart for new love. How could I but suffer always? I have never forgotten you, Rose!"

Very low was his voice as he uttered those last few words; but they sent a strange thrill through the heart of his hearer. She looked at him in pity and surprise, and answered gently, "I had never dreamed of this."

"No," resumed Montravers; "if you had thought of me at all, it has been, no doubt, as one gay and happy; -- and I have sought to be so. I did not, I assure you," said he, with a slight laugh, "wear the willow on my brow, nor yet turn anchorite for the sake of enshrining your image in my cell; but I have wandered over the earth and over the seas in search of the waters of Lethe, having some doubt of the veracity of the bard who sings -- 

"There is no Lethe for a lover's woe."

His words have been true, however, in my case. I have succeeded often in exciting an interest in my mind; but never in my heart, (and I have tried it too!) and now, even my mind refuses to be excited any longer with its wonted food. I have seen most of the countries of the earth; studied, though superficially, it is true, most of its theories and sciences; and tasted many of what arc called its pleasures. And the path before me still only grows darker as I advance."

"Oh, do not say so," exclaimed Rose.

"I must, for it is so," repeated Montravers. "Some words I lately met with in a romance by Mrs. Shelley dwell in my mind, for they describe my history most accurately. Judge if it be not so. 'When the Fates twined my destiny, they mingled three threads: the first was green hope, the second purple joy, the third black despair; but the two first were very short, and soon came to an end; a dreary line of black alone remains.'"

When he ceased he saw tears in the eyes of Rose. "Do you weep for me?" he asked very gently, and taking her hand for a moment in his.

"For you most, but for myself also," replied Rose. "You are surely brought here thus strangely for my reproof and instruction, so much you make me feel how wickedly I have repined. I thought, bereaved and wronged as I had been, that there could be few more pitiably desolate in heart than me; yet I have a child and a mother, and you -- "

She looked at him as she spoke, and something there was in that gentle pitying look which stirred the proud man's heart, for tears gathered in his unaccustomed eyes.

"I," he said, "have at least once more found a friend!"

There was another pause, -- a pause full of emotions to both. Rose first broke the silence.

"Yet why," she asked, "do you see only 'a dreary line of black' before you? It is easy, however," she added, "to be wise for others! I blush to think that I looked upon my lot but an hour since with the same eyes, so far at this life is concerned. But if the future cannot have joy for us, some paths of happiness assuredly the Divine Mercy will open before each of us as we proceed, at any rate. Come! I will repay your quotation with another from a more ancient source: with Spenser I say -- 

"Is not short payne well borne that brings long ease.
And laves the soule to sleepe in quiet grave?
Sleepe after toyle, port after stormie seas,
Ease after warre, death after life, does greatly please."

"Welcome it may be when it comes," Montravers rejoined; "but this does not much brighten the path that is to be traversed before we reach it."

"Yet, surely," argued Rose, "you have had and still have the power to create a species of happiness for yourself. You have tried a wandering and unsettled course of existence too long. Why not live upon your own estate, and interest yourself in the people around? You have so much power of doing good, and so much natural benevolence; you would at least secure a reflected happiness in seeing that of others; and if you laboured for Christ's sake, much greater would be your reward."

"I have not passed through life without making grateful hearts," replied Montravers. "I have tried this pleasure of which you boast; it is the best, perhaps, I have found; but it is not enough for me."

"But you have probably lost sight immediately of those whom you have served; your satisfaction then must be fleeting, even though their gratitude be not so, for you will forget these occasions. But if you dwelt among the people you benefited -- "

"Do not speak of it!" interrupted Montravers. "Your presence, Rose, had almost made me forget the flight of years, and made me for an instant live again in the time when I said in my heart, thus will we do -- together! But now -- your admonitions are in vain, Mrs. Merrival!"

There was a bitterness in his tone as he concluded, that hurt Rose deeply, and for once her husband's name sounded unpleasantly in her ear. She did not immediately reply, but finding the silence painful she broke it with an effort.

"You are displeased with me, Mr. Montravers."

"Why should you think so?"

"Your tone -- your concluding words -- "

"Because I called you Mrs. Merrival! I ought rather to apologize for having omitted to do so before; but in truth, habitually remembering you by your maiden name, -- the name I loved, -- I cannot, without pain, address you by that you have borne so long. Do not however so far misjudge me as to suppose that I now cherish resentment against Frank Merrival -- that has long since ceased."

"Thank God!" ejaculated Rose. "That assurance makes me feel very happy. It will not then displease you if I speak of him, -- if I tell you how he loved you to the last, and how often we talked of you, and made ourselves sad amid our own exceeding happiness, in thinking of the pain to you with which it was purchased."

"Did he, -- did you, -- feel so much for me!" said Montravers with much emotion. "Oh, Rose, sweet gentle friend, I have not been worthy of possessing you! Perhaps even (my pride feels humbled now, and I can acknowledge it), perhaps you had been less happy with me than with him, and I ought not to wish the web which destiny has woven for us to be other than it is! I had too hastily concluded from your first words that your lot had been less fortunate."

"In the last four or five years my troubles have been many!" said Rose. "But do not question me of them now! all here can tell you of my injuries, -- but do not, do not, despise me I Do not take from me the consolation which heaven has so unexpectedly bestowed upon me in this strange meeting!"

"You astonish and distress me!" exclaimed Montravers. "To what can you refer?"

"Indeed, I have not strength for more now," said Rose. "I had forgotten in so much excitement that I am an invalid. To-morrow I will see you, when you have heard all from others: now I feel very faint and ill."

And indeed she was so! Her lips were perfectly colourless, and a glassy film was in her eye. Montravers in vain reproached himself for inobservance and want of consideration; ere he could support her to the companion-ladder, she had fainted in his arms.

The surprise and agitation of the day had proved too much for the enfeebled health of Mrs. Merrival; she had a return of fever, and for a week was again stretched helplessly upon her uneasy bed. She rallied, however, and panting for the enjoyment of fresh air, as soon as she was able to bear it, she begged that she might be carried upon deck.

Montravers was quickly at her side. She fixed her eyes upon him with an anxious inquiring expression. He pressed her wan white hand in both of his, and whispered some words of kindness.

"You do not then utterly despise me?" she asked, smiling faintly.

"Dearest Rose! do not imagine it," he replied. "But we must not speak more now. The doctor has strictly enjoined me to forbear from conversation with you for a few days; and this is an authority which must be obeyed."

He sate beside her, however, so long as she remained there, ready to anticipate her least wish, the zealous interpreter of her slightest sign; and Rose was at once touched and comforted by his kindness.

Whatever hope of happier days might have sprung into life in the bosom of Ralph Montravers on the first discovery that he was a fellow-voyager with her he had so deeply loved, and that she was once more free, -- her changed appearance now, was sufficient at once to effect his disenchantment. She was beautiful, indeed, very beautiful in her transparent delicacy, but though he struggled effectually to conceal the shock which the rapid inroads of her disease had occasioned him, he felt from that moment that the prognostics of the physician would but too probably be realized, -- and that earthly happiness would soon cease to be felt or hoped by Rose. Perhaps, even had it not been thus, he might now have ceased, from other causes, to desire that union, disappointment in which had embittered his existence.

Montravers had not failed to inquire into the history to which Rose had referred with such evident pain; and it was with indignation which he scarcely could repress, that he heard of her wrongs, -- and with feelings of regret, and even censure, that he found she had given publicity to the injury, in punishing the offender. But whatever on this subject he may have felt, was merged in the deepest pity and anxiety, when he found, from day to day, that she continued seriously ill.

Rose, however, seemed to recover rapidly, from the day on which she had reappeared on deck; and soon, the less interested observers remarked that she looked as well, or even better, than before her last illness; and if she had excited much attention before, now she became still more the subject of gossip and whispered inuendos.

Many were the conjectures, many the pretended discoveries and romantic fables circulated and believed concerning her former connexion with the proud and melancholy Montravers; and more numerous still were the sarcasms and ill-natured remarks which envy murmured, when that tall handsome figure bent to arrange his cloak as a cushion for his delicate friend, and when his dark eye would rest on her for hours, with an evident interest which none other could excite even for a moment. Then they were for ever, it was remarked, in earnest whispered conversation, and any interruption was manifestly unwelcome.

And what spoke they of? Not, reader, of love! The fire which the passionate romance of his nature had nursed and fostered in the bosom of Montravers through so many years of separation, was subdued now by the presence of decay. He, indeed, loved Rose still, -- but the character of his love was changed; for he scarcely looked upon her as a being who had a future upon earth.

Yet he would sometimes try to shake off the impression, and persuade himself that it was rather her words than his own observations that gave him his belief. "Her own melancholy fancies have infected me," he would argue. "She does not suffer; she seems rather to gain strength than otherwise; and, except that there is at times a certain restless wildness in her eye, I see no reason why she should think herself unlikely for life." Yet, when again beside her, the impression would return; and thus the tone of their intercourse, though soothing, consoling, and a source of comfort and happiness to both, was generally of a melancholy character.

Rose had taken an early opportunity of returning to the topic which had terminated their first conversation, and drew from him his impression upon the subject. "You have heard then all that these people have to tell? And yet you can look on me with kindness? Heaven bless you for it, Mr. Montravers! I have watched your countenance so anxiously, fearing that I should see there at least some passing shade of contempt. I knew you would pity me, but you blame me also. I know you do, and you must listen to all I can say in exculpation. These people could only give you the broad outline of the story; they could not tell you the strong motives which prevailed with me to consent to go out to him, and the still stronger necessity which compelled me to extort from him a pittance which might save my child from utter destitution. Thank heaven that that care is not upon my mind.

Montravers listened with the deepest interest to her narrative of all that had befallen her since the early days of her union with Frank Merrival, and then, by mutual consent, they never reverted to the more painful parts of the narrative, but loved to dwell reflectively upon the happier periods.

Rose's history filled the heart of Montravers with the tenderest pity, and it did more than this -- it reconciled him to his own destiny, by comparison with her's. The agonizing pangs of bereavement, and the depressing struggles of poverty, were miseries which his lot was exempted from; and though he felt that even the remembrance of lost happiness was sweet, compared to the dreary void in his own breast, he acknowledged that not he alone had suffered.

Weeks fled by, and not unhappily for Rose and Montravers; and now thoughts of England and of home grew strong in the bosoms of most of the passengers. The days that they might yet be at sea, were eagerly reckoned each morning and each night; whilst in gay impatience chatted the idlers of their joy when the long weary voyage should be over, and their footsteps press once more their native soil.

"And you, Rose," asked Montravers, as they sate listening to such discourse, "are you, too. anxious to find yourself again on British shores?"

"I may never see them," said Rose, calmly.

"Why say so? what is reasonably to prevent you doing so? You must not give way to gloomy fancies, Rose; -- the voyage is almost over."

"I cannot resist the feeling," she replied; "it has been with me from the moment I embarked. I have told you before that

'Some kind sprite knocks softly at my soul,
To tell me fate's at hand.'

Poor Frank had somewhat similar presentiments, -- perhaps I unconsciously cherish mine on that account; but, at any rate, subdue this belief I cannot."

"Really, Rose, I think it an unpardonable weakness in a sensible, and particularly in a religious woman! You are better in health -- to the winds then with such sickly fantasies. I shall make haste to put Yeoverin Lodge in order, to receive you and your mother and my dear little Lucy there as my first guests. Will you come?" He sighed deeply as ho spoke; for thoughts of the past rushed painfully over his soul at the idea; and Rose, quick to read his feelings, hastened to change the theme. The presentiment of Rose, though deemed by Montravers without foundation, yet led him to watch her attentively; and he now saw with uneasiness from day to day an increasing excitement in her manner. There was a restless feverish energy in her movements, -- a nervous irritability, that made her start at every sound, and tremble when spoken to suddenly; -- when alone, she had always been sad; but now he frequently surprised her in tears, -- and once when he did so, little Lucy threw her arms around his neck, and whispered, while her little lips quivered with excitement, "Do tell mamma not to cry and talk to me so sadly; she will make Lucy cry too."

Montravers was convinced that this presentiment was tending to work out its own fulfilment, by undermining her health; so he consulted the physician upon the subject. He pronounced her feverish and ill, and prescribed for her accordingly; but the excitement only seemed to increase.

She could not bear the child absent from her for a minute, and was incessantly repeating to Montravers, "How providential it is that you are here! -- Who could have expected such an occurrence! -- I need have no anxiety now -- none, thank God!" And when he sought to interest her in some of the former serious subjects of discourse, he found with distress and alarm that her remarks were wandering and incoherent.

The weather had been for the most part remarkably fine; but when off the coast of Spain, it suddenly become unsettled and squally; and Montravers was grieved to observe how much this increased the high-strained and fevered excitement of his poor friend: she seemed unable to rest in any place for five minutes at a time, and wandered about with a troubled, anxious expression of countenance, which changed for one of exaggerated alarm whenever a sudden puff of wind filled out the scanty sail.

Though the sky continued bright, the gusts were so frequent, and occasionally so violent, that the ladies one after another went below, and by common consent confined themselves to the cabin throughout the afternoon. Towards evening, however, as Montravers was standing on the poop, gazing upon the clouds now slowly gathering in the west in all fantastic shapes, he was surprised to see Mrs. Merrival approaching him with a letter in her hand.

A shawl was thrown loosely around her; but little Lucy, whom she held by the hand, had ho such protection from the cool evening air.

"My dear Mrs. Merrival, is this prudent either for yourself or the child? Do let me accompany you again below."

"I shall not stay long," said she, hurriedly; "but I could not rest without speaking to you; there is no knowing what time I may have for doing so. I have been writing home, for do you know I have never had courage to do so till know, and I should like you to take charge of the letter; -- you will not think it too much trouble? I shall not live to see them, I think; so I thought it only right to send them an explanation of ever}'thing, and a few words of farewell; but I could not write to my mother, I thought I could tell it all better when we meet, -- that is, in Heaven, I mean. But you will bid the rest be kind to my poor orphan for her parent's sake, will you not? I know I need not ask you to love her always. My desk -- "

A sudden cry from many voices interrupted her; a wild gust swept over the waters, lashing them into foam, and filling the air with deafening sounds. The sails were torn from the bolt ropes and streamed on the winds, rent into narrow shreds; the masts bent like reeds, and the ship heeled over almost to the water's edge. Every one clung for safety to the nearest object of which he could lay hold.

Rose, with a faint shriek, caught up the terrified Lucy in her arms and held her towards Montravers. He pressed her closely to his bosom, and firmly grasped a rope to prevent his feet from slipping from under him, while his head was bowed down in the folds of his cloak, which he had hurriedly wrapped around his little charge, for it was impossible to stand erect before the blast.

In a few minutes the ship righted; the gale ceased almost as suddenly as it had commenced, and the silence was startling and unnatural. Montravers looked around for Rose, she was not at his side; he called upon her name, but none replied; he sought trembling for some token of her fate: the letter which she had held was grasped in his hand among the folds of the cloak, but the writer was seen no more; she had been swept away amid that waste of waters, and little Lucy was indeed an orphan.

CHAPTER XIII.

"Why was I made for love, and love denied to me?"

Coleridge.

The "Triton"" landed her passengers and discharged her cargo on the dirty wharfs of the Thames, and Montravers drove once more through the crowded streets of London.

Lucy Merrival was with him; she wept herself to sleep in his arms every night, talking to him of her mother. From the first day when she could lisp a few imperfect words, she had been accustomed, ere she laid her head upon the pillow, to address a simple prayer to God, kneeling at her mother's feet, and with her tiny hands pressed within her's; and now, as the hour approached when she should go to rest, the poor child each day saddened and refused amusement: when she was undressed she knelt down, as had been her custom, but it was to burst into tears, not to repeat the petition she had been so carefully taught; sobs choked her utterance, nor could she find quiet or consolation except in the arms of Montravers. The desolate situation of this little one, and the affection she demonstrated for himself, would have endeared her greatly to Montravers, even had she not been the daughter of the only woman he had ever deeply loved.

His first business in town was to give orders for mourning garments for himself and his young charge, and to send intelligence of the sad catastrophe to the relations of Rose. The letter she had written at the very hour of her death was addressed to her father-in-law, and this he forwarded accordingly, adding a few lines on the cover to give information of what had since happened, and of his purpose to be with them shortly. But he wrote more at length to Mrs. Morgan, and this last cost much time and pain, and even drew from him tears; for ho knew not how to reconcile the widowed woman to the loss of her only child, and his own heart felt even more than he dared to express. But the pain and the tears might have been spared; on the third day his letter was returned superscribed by some one at Woburn -- "Mrs. Morgan died last month."

The long silence of her daughter, he afterwards learnt, had pressed heavily upon her spirits, troubling her with many apprehensions; and some thought that this anxiety had indirectly caused her death.

This circumstance shocked Montravers more than, considering his very slight knowledge of the deceased, might have been supposed; but his soul was already shaken with grief, and it was in vain that he repeated to himself that she had mercifully been spared suffering which she might ill have endured; he still felt that another scene was added to a direful tragedy, and found himself plunged into still deeper melancholy.

The presence of Lucy alone roused him into any exertion; ho could not bear to see her bright face so early saddened, and sought amusement for her, which he felt as if he never again should desire for himself, and delighted when a smile gleamed on her rosy lips, or intelligent wonder beamed in her deep grey eye.

But ho had a duty to perform; he must fulfil the dying mother's wish, and resign his little favourite into the hands of her relatives. That done, and his estate once more visited, for the arrangement of some business, the future would again be spread before him, -- a limitless field without a single goal, or resting point, or scene of special interest.

It was on a Sunday afternoon that Montravers, taking a post-chaise from the Hotel at Buckingham, where they had slept, proceeded to Stanfield Farm.

Many were the faces of curiosity which appeared at door and window as the vehicle stopped, and the question of -- "Who is it?" was audible in half a dozen keys to the travellers, ere the steps of the chaise were let down.

"It is Mr. Montravers, Lucy; I am sure it is!" exclaimed the widowed Margaret, falling back from the window; "there is not such another handsome man upon the earth, and altered though he is, I should know him among a thousand."

All was hurry and confusion in a moment, and the travellers soon stood among as numerous a family party as might readily be met with in any country where monogamy is ordained by law. They were mostly attired in black, but the sombre effect was relieved by many bright eyes, and lips to which laughter seemed welcome.

There was much hand-shaking, and some kissing of little Lucy; and a great deal of shoving and shouldering, and pushing of chairs here and there; but, at length, Montravers was seated near the hale and handsome patriarch of the tribe, with the half-frightened Lucy upon his knee.

"This is a terrible thing, Mr. Montravers," said the farmer, patting the child on the head; "that sad news you sent us, I mean; it quite took us all by surpise, for we thought she was happily married again by this time. How was it, sir? -- for I am sure none of us can understand the letter she wrote, poor thing. It was the most incoherent stuff I ever read."

Montravers, with a heavy heart, briefly related the circumstances. Many were the comments and exclamations which followed.

"No wonder it made her ill!" cried Margaret. "I'd have been fit to poison him, if it had been me; bah! I have no patience with such conduct!"

"Poor -- poor Rose! how unhappy she has been!" said Lucy Mcrrival, with a tear in her cheek. "Do you think, sir, that she loved him?"

"Thank God, -- no!" cried Montravers, with sudden energy.

"And you, sir," said Mrs. Mcrrival; "how strange that you should meet with her again at such a time. Were you in Calcutta I -- or how came it about?"

Montravers satisfied their natural curiosity on this subject also; but he began to feel impatient of the conference.

"Well, for my part, Mr. Montravers," cried the farmer; "I cannot but say that I think it is a pity that marriage ever took place; see what is the upshot of it."

"Oh, but father!"" remonstrated many voices at once; "poor Frank and Rose was so very -- very happy, for many years!"

"So they were -- so they were; none more so, nor better deserving it, poor things! But what is the upshot of it, I repeat? The whole family is swept away, young and old; and their little one is left to us, forsooth! who have been plagued with a tribe of children about our heels for the last six-and-thirty years, and seem doomed to be so to the end of the chapter!"

"You would never be happy without them," said his wife, good-humouredly.

"Would I not? I tell you I am tired of it, Martha! It is time both you and I had rest; and I tell you all, -- do you hear me, young ones? -- that you may marry or not, as you choose; but not another of you shall think that you may leave your brats to be a burden upon me in my failing years. No, nor yet come back to quarter upon me, like Margaret there, with a squalling squadron!"

"Well, well," interposed his wife again; "it is no use talking in this way, they would not do it if they could help it, you know: and at any rate, thinking of Lucy, one more or less makes little difference amongst so many, as you have often said; and there will be poor Mrs. Morgan's little annuity for her, which will more than keep her yet awhile."

"It is not that, wife, as you ought to know," returned the farmer, sharply. Then, turning to Montravers, he repeated in a good-humoured tone. "It is not that sir; I am not such a brute as to grudge bed and board to my own grandchild, when, thank God, we have enough in a homely way. But I am growing old now, and feel to have had enough of cradles and leading strings. Here is my own youngest just out of her cradle," he added, pinching the chubby cheek of Sophy, a romping girl of eight or nine years old; "and she, and Maggy's mischievous boys leave me no rest or peace; and now Frank's child must be added to the flock. It is a little hard, is it not, sir?"

"She shall not be a trouble to you, father," said Lucy Merrival, gently. "I will take charge of my own dear god-daughter. You are aunt Lucy's child, are you not, darling?" said she, coaxingly kneeling beside her, and offering to take her from Montravers. "Will you not be aunt Lucy's child?"

"No -- no!" she said, decidedly. "I am only Mr. Montravers' child now!" And flinging her little arms around his neck, she burst into tears.

There was so much feeling in that word "now," that Montravers was deeply touched. He loved the child more dearly than before; he pressed her closely to his breast, and was glad to bow his face upon her shoulder to conceal his emotion.

In a minute he rose.

"Mr. Merrival," he said, in some excitement, "you heard her? She calls herself 'my child,' -- let her be so! Hitherto I have wandered at large over the face of the earth; and I thought to do so still. I have had no home; but at those few words, a new idea sprang up in my heart; henceforth I will have a resting place, -- a home! If you will give Lucy to me, I will devote myself to her."

"Really, sir, this is very kind, -- very handsome of you!"

"I thought." interrupted Montravers, "when I brought her here, that she would be received as a sacred relic, -- loved and fostered as the dying legacy of one most dear. You have not given her the reception I expected; but you have, as you justly say, a very large family, and it must plead your excuse. Of one fact, however, you seem not to be aware, and it is right I should inform you of it, as it was among the greatest comforts of -- of -- the mother's latter days. She did not leave her little daughter portionless! She rejoiced that she would not, in a pecuniary sense, be a burden to any of you."

"Oh, that greatly alters the case!" cried several voices at once.

"And we may keep little Lucy with us," said the godmother, with a supplicating look.

"That it just as Mr. Montravers pleases," replied the farmer. "I am glad of what you tell me, sir; for I like not that any of my blood should be reared by the bounty of a stranger, under whatever circumstances: but if she has a fortune, I let her go with you, if you really desire it, without a scruple. She is a pretty, delicate flower. Heaven bless her! and like her mother, will need more gentle rearing than we can well give her here. What say you, Martha? Girls, what think you of it?"

There were a few whispered objections or suggestions from the "womankind," but Mr. Merrival cut them short.

"I tell you, her being provided for makes no difference at all in the question, -- or, if any, it is to favour her going from us. Don't you see, that any difference in education, or the like, that we should think just to her to make, might raise envy among her cousins, as they grow old enough to understand it I So, for my own part, if she remained here, I say plainly T would rather she were without her fortune! But if Mr. Montravers takes her, poor Morgan's constant prayer will be fulfilled at last; -- his grandchild will be restored to the station of his ancestors. I only wish there were ever a chance of the Merrivals lifting their heads again. But no baloon will rise with so much ballast!" added the good-natured old man, as, rising from his chair with a hearty laugh, ho pushed aside the clustering flock.

"Well then, sir, I think we understand each other," said Montravers, rising also and shaking him by the hand; "you give your grandchild up to me entirely?"

"Why yes, sir; we all agree to it, do we not?" he added, looking round upon the group. "Yes, sir; and we thank you gratefully; for, in truth, the little lamb looks unfit to herd with my rough fold. Come to me, Lucy, and give grandfather a kiss, darling!"

She willingly complied, and now quietly consented to be handed about and caressed by each in turn, as if she understood the transfer just effected, and wished to ratify it. Aunt Lucy pressed her long to her bosom, and wept as she lifted her dear brother's child into the chaise. Montravers saw her emotion and pressed her hand affectionately; then retaining it a moment, he slipped a ring upon her finger, and begged her to wear it for the sake of her godchild, who should never be suffered to forget any who loved her as truly as she did.

A new prospect now lay before Ralph Montravers, -- a moment had changed all his views and purposes; but he felt happier in having adopted them, and now, with the ardour natural to his disposition, ho pressed forward, every delay seeming tedious, till he should be once more at Yeoverin Lodge.

"Here, then," lie exclaimed, as his carnage drove through the gates, -- "here, where I passed my first and happiest years, my days are destined to decline and end! -- Be it so! Thou, my little Lucy, hast been unconsciously the arbitress of my destiny. Thy mother drove me from my ancestral home, and thou bringest me back to it! It is a strange web, but I will patiently unravel it to the end. Lucy! Lucy, my child, wake up!" he cried. "Put thy gentle arms around my neck, and say to me, 'Welcome home!' -- Heaven bless thee, sweetest, and welcome home to thee! for this is Yeoverin Lodge, -- it is here that we are to live, Lucy."

The lighted hall, the bright fires blazing in several of the rooms, and the preparations made for supper, gave evidences that the long absent lord of the domain was expected. Montravers was pleased with the prompt attention to all his hastily written orders, and turned round to speak some words of approval to the old housekeeper, who had met him on entering. At the first instant, he did not perceive her; but a moment afterwards, was deeply touched on perceiving that she had fallen back into the shadow of a curtain which was festooned around a well-remembered recess, and was weeping freely.

"Mrs. Goodall," he said, approaching her, and laying his hand upon her arm, "do not welcome me with tears! We must make the Lodge a cheerful and happy home, if we can. for my little adopted daughter."

"Heaven bless you, sir!" cried the worthy woman with much emotion. "Cheerful and happy have long been forgotten words at Yeoverin; but now you have come once more to rest from your long wanderings in foreign parts, all will be well! A blithe heart your letter gave me, that said you were coming to settle here for good and all. But indeed, Mr. Ralph, you must excuse me that the sight of you upset me so much; and I thought, too, that you had forgotten mo, or were too proud now to speak a word to an old and faithful servant. But Heaven bless you, sir! I see your heart is as kind as ever."

"I have not forgotten you, or anything that belongs to those bygone days, Mrs. Goodall! -- days when this room resounded with young happy voices, making glad the hearts of the best of parents. Oh! my good old friend, how shall I bear to live here alone with these sad remembrances, -- these lifeless phantoms of the past?"

He held aside the curtain of the recess, and gazed awhile in silence upon a large picture, from the pencil of the first artist of the day, which hung within; -- a family group, distinguished by all the dignity and beauty of form and feature for which the race were remarkable; and when at length, heaving a profound sigh. he turned away, Mrs. Goodall perceived that tears had gathered in his large dark eyes. Her own were only too ready to gush forth in sympathy, and she was about to speak in reply to what she concluded were his feelings, when another voice anticipated her -- the clear, happy voice of little Lucy.

She took the hand of Montravers very gently in her's, and looking sweetly up into his face, -- "This fine house," she said, "and that picture of beautiful faces, has made you quite forget your little girl."

"No, never, sweetest!" he cried, catching her to his breast, and kissing her fervently. "I never will forget ray Lucy! -- We must take care of her, Mrs. Goodall, for she is a good little girl, and is come here to make me happy instead of her mother. You know whose child she is, Mrs. Goodall? She is an orphan now! I will tell you all another time; but she is to live here as my adopted child. -- And now, let us see what there is for our supper, Lucy, for it is late!"

Years passed by, tranquilly and contentedly, -- at least for the inhabitants of Yeoverin Lodge. Lucy was the sunbeam that gladdened the quiet walls, and the melancholy heart of their possessor. Lucy was the motive for exertion, -- the charm against ennui, -- the glad companion of his walks, -- the advocate of every petitioner too timid to address the proud-looking Montravers himself. Yet Montravers was neither proud, nor cold, nor stern in his heart, as many rashly judged him to be; but his habitual, and too long indulged melancholy, had given to his features a character which tended too much to repel familiarity and inspire awe.

His little girl alone had no fear of him. With her he was never displeased; and she, with wondrous tact, learnt to read his countenance, and tune her spirits to accord with his. She had become accustomed to call him "uncle;" for the "Mr. Montravers" of the voyaging days was soon found inconvenient in daily intercourse: and he spoke of her as his child, or his ward, or his pupil, and numbers without end of sweeter epithets. His pupil she entirely was. He could not bear to hear of her having any other instructor but himself; and save that Mrs. Goodall had taught her how to ply the needle for her occasional amusement, all that she knew was taught her by him; and the sweetest reward of tasks well performed was to sit on his knee, in the twilight of evening, while he talked to her of her mother, and sometimes of her father also, whom he loved so well when they were boys together. Sometimes, too, he would tell tales of his own childhood, and of the brothers and sisters who used to play together in that very house, until, like her father and mother, they had died one after another; and lastly of the shipwreck, when he was left quite alone, and would have died, too, but for her father, brave Frank Merrival.

All these tales were familiar to Lucy; but she never wearied of hearing them repeated, and she would muse upon them, and, with the busy fancy of a child, weave a thousand fantastic dreams from these materials, till a whole library of romance was framed on this foundation.

At length a trouble came upon them all, for little Lucy, then nine or ten years old, was attacked by the scarlet fever, and lay long in great peril of her life. Montravers was wretched at the possibility of losing her; he sat beside her night and day, watching the faintest sign, smoothing the contracted brow with kisses, cooling the parched lips, and fanning with unwearied hand the burning cheek. It was a beautiful sight, and one which often sent Mrs. Goodall from the room in tears, to see that tall and noble form bending so patiently over the sick child, his eyes scarcely averted for a moment from her face, and his oar seeming to receive no sound but her short and painful respiration.

But in spite of all the care and all the watchings, Lucy grew worse for many successive days. Delirium had subsided, but she was left in a state of exhaustion, from which it was feared she had not strength to rally.

One day she had remained for hours in a state of apparent torpor. Montravers, as usual, was beside her, a prey to the deepest despondency, and murmuring to himself, from time to time, the gloomy thoughts that pressed upon his mind.

"She will leave me, I know she will! Some curse was upon me from my birth. I am doomed to a solitary unloved existence. And why? -- what have I done I -- how deserve so wretched a doom? Endowed with a heart capable of such yearning, passionate love as mine, why -- why is this?"

Perhaps his voice had unconsciously risen, and roused the little sufferer from her state of stupor, for suddenly she opened her eyes, and fixing them on Montravers, she said, "Are you praying for me, uncle?"

He started at the unexpected sound, and anxiously asked how she felt?"

"I think I am better. Do tell me if you were praying for me, uncle?"

"I was not praying, dearest. Do you wish me to do so, Lucy!"

"Yes, very much. Do you know, uncle. I have been thinking I heard mamma praying by my bed. I remember she often did so. I remember quite well, in the ship, that she used to ask that I might be always good, and pray to God every day, that He might bless me; and you know, uncle, I very often forget that! And then I thought it must be because I am a wicked girl that God has made me so very ill. But you will pray to Him to forgive me, dear uncle, for I am very tired now."

Montravers' heart smote him. With all his love for her, -- with all his desire to fulfil the duty he had taken upon himself, -- with all his hope of making her in every respect such as her mother would have delighted to behold her, -- he had failed in one important point. The child's own voice had condemned him. Religion, beyond taking her occasionally to church on a Sunday, and imparting some vague knowledge of God as the creator of the universe and the punisher of evil men, he had never made part of his lessons; and now she had asked him if he was praying to the Almighty for her recovery at the very time when he had rather been murmuring against Him for her sickness I The path which he ought to have followed, that little child had shewn in her simplicity, and she had asked him to pray for her forgiveness. -- he knelt, and weeping prayed for his own.

Two hours had passed, and Lucy had slept. She woke, and saw that patient, anxious watcher still beside her. "Dear uncle, kiss me! Will the doctor come soon, for I think I am better, uncle?"

"Sweet child, heaven grant it! You make me happy by saying so."

"You know what I said to you, uncle? Did you ask God to forgive me and make me soon well? Because He will grant what we ask, you know, for Jesus Christ's sake; and indeed, I wish to be made well; and I know you wish it too. You do not like to see your little Lucy suffer; dear, good, kind uncle, I so love you, I should not like to die and leave you!"

"God preserve thee!" cried Montravers with an irrepressible burst of tears.

He left her, and in the privacy of his own chamber he prayed indeed -- with a fervency, a humility, and a trust in the efficacy of prayer, which was entirely new to him. It was an era in the history of Montravers; for the emotions of that hour were never to be forgotten.

The physician did not think his little patient better that day, nor the next, nor the next, -- but in time she began to mend visibly: she was preserved, or, it might almost be said, restored, for she had been on the very brink of destruction; -- and now the joint thanksgivings of guardian and ward ascended daily to the heavenly throne.

They spent some months on the sea-coast for the recovery of her strength, and their return to Yeoverin Lodge was marked by a festive entertainment to the tenantry and the poor of the neighbourhood; and, altogether, this year was a chronological era of great use in Lucy's lengthening and tranquil history.

CHAPTER XIV.

"How can any one despair to-day, when to-morrow may change his whole destiny?" -- Elinor Fulton.

Again years flowed on -- four years -- in general outline, the routine of actions and events, like those which had preceded this era; yet in their internal history importantly different both to Montravers and Lucy; to both it must be, if to one; for every feeling that influenced the one -- so living as they lived -- must necessarily affect the other.

The devout emotions awakened by the season of distress, became permanent and active principles in the breast of Montravers; the remorse he felt at having failed in a point to which Rose, he knew, would have given her most anxious attention, made him reflect much how he might repair his error. If ho was to instruct her in the truths and duties of religion, he must himself acquire the knowledge of them; and he was thus led for the first time seriously to consider this all-important subject, and to see that not only to fulfil his duty to a deceased mortal, but to fulfil that of a subject of Heaven, he must apply himself to the neglected study.

Once convinced of this, his was not a mind to grow faint in the pursuit; -- ardent in every thing, and constant as ardent, the hand once put to the plough he turned not back; and Lucy went with him, hand in hand, along the path which to them indeed was one "of pleasantness, and its ways were peace."

Montravers was benevolent before, whenever an object of pity was presented to him; but now he sought out those to whom he might do good. Montravers was looked upon before with respect and esteem, and none spoke of him an evil word; but now he was regarded with love and veneration, and his praises were on every lip. His melancholy too became of a less severe character, his spirit seemed gradually to have softened, and a spring of cheerfulness to have arisen in his heart, fertilizing what had before been arid soil.

They were very happy, were Montravers and Lucy, -- and all around them were happy too; but it is the lot of man that changes shall from time to time agitate the current of his days, as the passing breeze will ruffle the surface of the most sheltered lake; and if these changes visit him not from without, he will himself disturb the elements of his tranquillity, and effect some revolution from within.

Lucy was wearied with a longer ride than usual, and went one evening early to rest; and Montravers, feeling perhaps from unbroken habit lonely from losing his companion before the customary time, rang the bell; and on the pretext of some little business or other, sent for Mrs. Goodall; and the little business, whatever it might be, being settled, they fell into conversation about Lucy Merrival.

"She is a little angel certainly," said the housekeeper, in reply to some remark; "there is not a soul that knows her, and does not love her."

"She is becoming prettier than ever too," said Montravers, who delighted in drawing forth her praises; "but I am rather afraid, Mrs. Goodall, that she is growing too fast; it makes her not so strong, I think, as she was."

"Do not make yourself uneasy about that, sir; she is rather tall, to be sure, -- but it is time she should grow now, for indeed we had begun to think that she would be little."

"Well, Mrs. Goodall, I hope I have done my duty to her in every thing, as her poor mother could desire. Do you think there is any thing neglected that can be for her welfare? Pray speak sincerely on this point."

"No, indeed, sir; she is as happy as the day is long, and I do not know what a person can wish more than that; but Miss Merrival will be almost a woman soon, sir, -- and what will you do with her then?"

"What should I do with her different from formerly, Mrs. Goodall?" said Montravers, smiling, "unless you mean that she should discontinue her lessons?"

"Oh, it is too soon for that yet, sir; but I have thought, now that she is getting on in years, she ought to be taught more as other young ladies are; -- something more of accomplishments, I mean. She plays and sings a little, it is true; but no great things, sir, even you will say; -- and then there's dancing."

"She is very happy without these things," said Montravers, rather uneasily.

"Yes, sir, now, -- and may be for some time to come; but young women will have young women's feelings, sir; -- and if anything (which God forbid) were to befal you, and she were to be out at all in the world, -- why, though she has more learning, and more goodness too, than any other young lady, she would still feel a want when amongst I hem. Why, sir, do as you will, you cannot think to keep such a beautiful bird in your cage for ever; you will be planning to get her married some day."

"Married, Mrs. Goodall! I shall never bear to part with her!" cried Montravers, turning pale at the thought.

"Why, sir, if you were her father, you would naturally look forward to settling her, sooner or later; and you always have told me that you wish to act by her in all things as a parent."

"It is true, Mrs. Goodall; you are right, no doubt; but it is surely too soon to think of this."

"Yes, indeed, sir," replied the housekeeper; "but not, I think, too soon to begin to prepare for it."

"And how on earth do you suppose I am to begin to prepare her for falling in love, and getting married?" cried Montravers, laughing.

"I did not mean quite that, sir," returned Mrs. Goodall, "for I suppose such things come by nature; but I mean, -- prepare her for being what a gentleman would like to find his wife, in the way of accomplishments and so forth; and more than that, sir, to let her know a little what the world is, and what sort of people are in it; for she will else be expecting to find them all good, and clever, and kind to her, like yourself; and some day or other she will, may be, have to learn another lesson -- though surely I hope not."

"What is it that you want me to do then, Mrs. Goodall?"

"Why, sir, I have hinted the same to you before, though never so boldly, -- but I do certainly think that Miss Merrival would be better of going to a school. No doubt you would make her a better scholar than any schoolmistress of them all, but so much learning is not of any great use to a lady, maybe, when once she is married; and, at any rate, she will see other young ladies, and learn to do what they do, fine embroidery works, and music, and quadrilles, and fifty other things that I am not likely to know anything about."

"And does she want to learn these things?"

"She! Lord bless you, sir, she has never thought of them, -- as how should she, when not a young lady does she see but the rector's daughters now and then, and the Misses Simmonds of the Hall; who, rich though they be, are surely no examples for Miss Merrival."

"I do not know what to say to this," mused Montravers; "the scheme has its advantages, but the poor child is happy as she is, and I do not like to lose sight of her."

"That is very natural; but there is another thing, if I may venture," continued Mrs. Goodall. "She will, most likely, make friends among her companions, who may be of use to her in days to come; for it is not to be supposed, sir, but that you may die before her, and then, who would she have to turn to, so lonely as you live, and she without another friend but you, and her relations in another sphere of life, as I may say?"

"She shall go to school!" exclaimed Montravers abruptly, after musing a moment. "Your arguments have convinced me, Mrs. Goodall, and I thank you for your advice, though I shall find it very painful to follow it."

Some months still passed away before Montravers had selected a fitting seminary to which he could transfer his beloved pupil; but all was at length settled, and they journeyed again to London, for the excellent school of the Misses H was in the vicinity of the metropolis.

They visited Stanfield on their way, for Montravers had no wish that Lucy should be alienated from the affections of her father's family. But the reader, I imagine, has no particular desire to improve his acquaintance with this family, worthy though many of its members might be; so I will not detain him there, nor yet dwell on the parting scene between Montravers and his orphan charge, -- for the feelings of both may well be imagined in this their first separation in a period of upwards of nine years.

Montravers thought that in two years Lucy's education might be completed; and fearful of his own want of resolution to send her back again if once she was restored to him, it was mutually agreed, that, if she found herself tolerably happy, she should remain during the whole period at Groom's Hill House; and that in the vacations, subject to certain restrictions, she should enter a little into society under the protection of her amiable and accomplished instructresses.

Montravers was himself astonished, on his return home, to find how much, in every hour of the day, he missed his young companion. His ordinary occupations had lost all their interest, now she was no longer at his side to cheer him with her sunny smile, -- but his character had materially changed since the days when he yielded without resistance to the sway of every melancholy feeling. He now applied himself assiduously to his books; and found amusement, also, in making considerable alterations in his house and grounds, with the view of preparing a pleasant surprise for Lucy when she should return; he furnished a room as a young lady's boudoir, and threw out from it a new conservatory. Lucy had a taste for flowers, and he spared no pains in procuring for her the loveliest and rarest, and made a new-study for himself in learning the secret of their cultivation. He mixed more, too, in the scanty society of the neighbourhood, with a view to discovering whom it might be desirable to cultivate as acquaintances for his young protégée: but nothing gave him in this period equal pleasure with the correspondence which he maintained with her.

There was an interchange of letters every week, for there were never failing topics of interest. At first Lucy was unhappy at school, she pined for sympathy and for freedom, but she carefully avoided saying so when she wrote, dwelling rather on the impressions she received from the new style of life she now led; and gradually she became habituated to the formal routine in which her hours and days revolved, -- so easy is it to reconcile ourselves to what all around us are contented with!

At first, too, she was astonished at the trifles which interested and amused her companions -- many of them already young women. The eager and animated discussions about a new ribbon, or the precise shade of Berlin wool for their embroidery, seemed to her almost ludicrous from their frovolity; and they, in turn, laughed at her ignorance upon all such subjects, and were almost incredulous as to its reality. Lucy, however, was too amiable and good-natured not to be loved, and too sensible and well-informed not to be looked up to by her companions; and she soon felt a blameless pride in the consciousness that she was becoming popular, which went far to reconciling her to her separation from her dear tutor and guardian.

The vacation came, and new scenes and pleasures opened before Lucy Merrival. Two other young ladies (she wrote) were also remaining the holidays; and, as good fortune would have it, they were her favourite friends, Clara and Jaquelotte Mortimer. Their father was governor of one of the West Indian islands, and these young ladies, both something older than herself, were left, in the absence of their parents, under the protection of the Misses H -- , and with a similar arrangement in regard to society, as her own. Thus she really enjoyed herself as much as it was possible for her to do while absent from dear Yeoverin, and all that she most loved.

The name of the young ladies struck Montravers, and he inquired, in reply, as to their family, and found that they were indeed the youngest daughters of General Mortimer, and his old friend (formerly) Mrs. Mant. He was delighted that an intimacy should arise thus unexpectedly between her children and his young favourite, and it needed only to remind Lucy of the shipwrecked lady of the desert isle, to make her heart warm more and more towards her friends.

At length the two years ended, and Montravers eagerly hastened to reclaim his ward. What a moment of delight was that of their first embrace! And then -- he gazed with astonishment at the change which time had made in her. The pretty, sprightly, intelligent girl, was now a tall, graceful, and very lovely woman; and but that her hair was a shade darker, and that something of style and elegance were substituted for simple native grace, he might have thought that her mother had reappeared before him as when first he beheld her. He gazed, and could not speak; but she was animated and voluble, -- till, at a word, she bounded gladly away to prepare for her departure. All was quickly ready. She embraced her loved preceptresses with tears, but the glad smile gleamed forth again when Montravers offered his arm to conduct her to the carriage.

Once more they were at Yeoverin! What greetings, what delight, from all they met, -- what a cordial welcome from worthy Mrs. Goodall! What admiration of all that had been done in her absence! What joy to be again in her dear home, waking the sleeping smiles on the face of her protector -- the orphan's friend!

Lucy was delirious from delight! -- and for Montravers -- his happiness was only less great because it brought with it a shadow from the past, and was perturbed also by a sense of the great change in Lucy since they had parted. It was no longer the little girl whom he could fondle and caress as he would, and who caressed him as freely in return; -- it was no longer as a parent and child that they conversed, for he felt, despite himself, something too much of admiration and of respect mingling with his former feelings.

"This will wear off when I am more familiar with her appearance," thought he, in conclusion of a long fit of musing. Then rising from the dinner table, "Come, Lucy," he said, "it is a lovely evening, let us take a turn in the park together, as we used to do o' summer nights!"

"Gladly!" she exclaimed; and in a few minutes they were sauntering arm-in-arm under the shadow of the noble oaks and elms that beautified the domain.

"Ah, this is delightful!"" cried Lucy; "this is like old times! Oh, sometimes I feared they would never return, -- those two years appeared so long."

"What then must they have been to me?" said Montravers, pausing in his walk. "Oh, Lucy, you cannot guess how heavily the days crept on, despite all that I could do to give them wings; you know not how much I have missed you; and I would not have you know it."

"You think it would make me vain I -- and indeed, you are right. I ought to feel flattered; yet humble, too; for how can I be half as agreeable as you will expect, after my merits have had nourishment for two long years from your imagination. But never mind, we shall love each other quite well enough to be very -- very happy, even though you do find your spoilt little girl to be not quite perfect."

"May thy lot at least be a happy one!" exclaimed Montravers fervently; then fell for several moments into a thoughtful silence, which he was himself the first to break.

"Lucy, my love, I want you to answer me a question frankly and unreservedly. You have talked much to me of your affection for Miss H -- and her sisters, and of the friendship of the Miss Mortimers and other ladies with whom you have associated. Tell me, now, my child, among the gentlemen you have met with in society, are there any whom you particularly like?"

"There is one!" answered Lucy, with animation. "Oh, how I wish you could see him! -- he is so handsome, so manly, so gentle, and so animated. I am sure you would like him! Harry Mortimer -- his sisters always call him Harry -- has not his equal, I am sure, upon the earth, unless it is my own dear uncle."

"You little flatterer," said Montravers, with a faint smile; but a sigh accompanied it, and he again walked on awhile in silence.

"The whole family are so handsome and so gifted!" continued Lucy, carried on by enthusiasm for her friends. "Clara, dear Clara, is quite lovely; and Jaquelotte so brilliant! I wonder which you would admire the most I Then they have no vanity, and tell me, -- which I should think impossible, -- that their eldest sister, who is married, is much handsomer than either of them. There is a younger brother, too, in the army, of whom they are scarcely less proud."

"It was only to be expected!" exclaimed Montravers, abstractedly; "and I were selfish to wish it otherwise!" Then encircling with his arm the waist of his young companion, he continued in a more cheerful tone. "I do not doubt, dear girl, that this young man deserves your artless praises, especially knowing, as I do, the stock from which he springs. I have even pleasure in the thought that I already must have seen him when a very little boy. Heaven bless you, dearest! I must then make up my mind to part from you very soon, I suppose? -- but it is a trial for which I am hardly yet prepared."

"To part from me?" cried Lucy, looking up in the face of her guardian, with unfeigned surprise. "What can you mean? -- why do you speak of separation?"

"Do you not, then, wish it, Lucy? Oh yes, you must, or you soon will! You are in the very dawn of womanhood, -- and a most lovely dawn, -- and I am more than old enough to be your father. Even that sacred tie itself is rarely so strong as to bind together the young and old in voluntary companionship for life. How, then, can I expect from you such a sacrifice, when no tie of blood links together our destinies? -- I do not expect it! The chief desire of my life, dear girl, is to secure thy happiness, and the few relics saved from the wreck of my own earthly joys, will be a willing sacrifice at thy shrine. Lucy, you will marry soon; and I wish it, love, though I shall indeed be left lone and desolate once more."

"I will not leave you," cried Lucy, throwing her arms around him, while tears sprang to her eyes. "No, no, my more than father, let me stay here always! What life can be happier than that which we have led till now? -- our garden, our books, our birds, our cottagers, ourselves; -- oh, we used to share every pleasure and every thought, and never think of separation. Why should we now? If older in years, you made yourself young for the child; and now, when we seem more suitable companions, you wish me to leave you."

"Not wish you, Lucy!"

"Then I will not. Oh, how can you think I would: knowing your whole hi.story as I know it, -- how could you suppose I would ever leave you when you do not wish it? -- I am not so ungrateful!"

"Dear, dearest girl, your words fill my heart with inexpressible pleasure, but you do not yet know your own. Love will one day make these emotions feel feeble and trivial; it is an all-absorbing passion, a tyrannic! But enough of this; words never yet so truly described it, but that each person, on first feeling its influence, believes himself the subject of some new and strange phenomenon. Now, tell me, Lucy, for you know I only wish to add, in all things reasonable, to your pleasures. Would you like me to invite these friends of yours, the Miss Mortimers, and their brother, to Yeoverin?"

"Oh! how very kind!" exclaimed Lucy. "I should indeed like it! I could be happy, I know, my life long, with no companion but your dear, good, considerate self. But still I should delight to show Clara all the scenes I have so often described to her; -- and Jaquelotte, too! how she would enjoy cantering through our shady lanes, -- oh! we should be so very happy! As to their brother, I think he could not come. Lady Mary would never spare him now. You know he is engaged to be married to her."

"To be married? -- Harry Mortimer?"

"Yes, he has only waited for his parents' return. They are delighted with his choice, and I suppose it will be all over next week."

"See," said Montravers, with heightened colour, "how we mortals disquiet ourselves in vain! No doubt our imaginings make the half of our troubles! -- I thought, from your panegyric, that your heart nuist have been conquered by his many merits."

"Oh, no!" returned Lucy gaily. "I knew that he was engaged before I ever saw him! -- His sisters told me the whole story."

"I feel strangely happy at this news,"" said Montravers. "I feel now how ill I should have endured to have resigned you to another. Lucy, I believed myself more magnanimous than I now find that I am! Lucy, dearest girl, you spoke of spending your life with me. You said, sweet love, that you could be happy with me only, -- heard I not aright? With me only, desiring nothing, else? Lucy!" -- he drew her closer to him and pressed a kiss upon her lips, -- "Lucy, will you be my wife?"

She looked up suddenly in blushing surprise. There was an expression in his countenance, which she had never seen there before; there was surely some spell in the beam of that dark eye, for the girl trembled visibly; her bosom heaved, and cheeks and brow were suffused with the deepest crimson; a veil seemed withdrawn from her understanding, but utterance was denied to her tongue.

"Speak, -- speak, my Lucy!" again whispered that thrilling earnest voice.

For a moment, she hesitated: then throwing her arms around his neck, she buried her blushing face upon his breast and burst into tears.

"Lucy! sweetest, dearest Lucy, think well what you are doing! I know you have loved me, dear one, as a child; but this is a decision for life, -- this is irrevocable! I am forty-five, Lucy, and you but seventeen. Consider well! You will still be young when I am failing and in years! And, then, -- you spoke, love, a little time since, of being bound to me by gratitude; but gratitude will not do for the motive of marriage. I adjure thee, then, sweetest, as thou hopest for the happiness of either of us, -- tell me if what thou feelest is gratitude, -- or, more?"

"It is that, -- it is more I -- it is everything, -- it is love!" murmured Lucy.

"Heaven's choicest blessings on thee!" cried Montravers, straining her to his bosom. "Thou art then mine! Mine -- my own, own Lucy! Oh, this is a joy, indeed, which I never thought again to feel! Thou wilt make me forget the sorrows of my springtime in the bliss of the autumn season! New light gleams over the vista of my past days; the mist which obscured my destiny is dispersed, and I can now proclaim aloud that all has been wisely and graciously ordered!"

The tumult of either heart thus startled into a knowledge of its own emotions, I leave to the experience or the imaginings of my readers to picture.

The happy news was quickly spread, and the delight of the worthy old housekeeper was extreme. She had troubled herself, she said, ever since Miss Lucy came home, dreading that ill-natured tongues might devise some ill against the pretty soul now she was a woman grown, considering that the master was still in his prime, not to say a young man quite.

The nuptials were not delayed longer than was absolutely necessary, and gay was the time at Yeoverin Lodge; for Montravers thought it best to bring his young bride at once before the gossiping public as one with whom all might be proud to claim acquaintance. General and Mrs. Mortimer were there, and their daughters; Harry Mortimer, too, and Lady Mary, came thither in the progress of their own wedding tour. There was Miss H -- , also, rejoicing benevolently in the happiness of her pupils; -- nor had the family at Stanfield been forgotten, Montravers having sent them a kind general invitation.

The grand-parents were both still living, but they excused themselves from being present on the plea of old age, -- for they felt that they had been too long unused to such society to grace it well now: but "Aunt Lucy" could not deny herself the pleasure of seeing the bright nuptials of her niece and godchild; and on Charles Merrival devolved the distinguished honour of giving away the bride. Their youngest sister, Sophy, also accompanied them, and shared with the daughters of General Mortimer the office of bridesmaid to her niece, who was very few years her junior; and it were not easy to find a group of more beautiful young girls than the bride and her attendants presented on the happy morning.

Aunt Lucy was the saddest of the party; -- and when, after the ceremony, Montravers imprinted a kinsman's kiss upon her still comely cheek, a sudden paleness overspread her face, and she trembled as if about to fall.

The eye of her brother Charles was upon her, -- his arm instantly gave her support. "Courage, courage, Lucy," he whispered; "all is over now! -- none but me has ever guessed your secret; let none know it now."

It was even so. The image of Montravers once impressed upon her girlish fancy, left there a trace -- scarcely to be called love indeed, but which, though she knew it not, was the occult cause why other lovers had never pleased her. She had almost forgotten Montravers, however, previous to his reappearance with the little girl; but his distinction of her then above her sisters, and his kind words in presenting her with the ring, had revived the dormant spark, -- all vain and fruitless as she knew it to be. But women's hearts are weak and foolish things in yielding to tender sentiments, though often strong and excellent when acting under their influence.

The orphan girl was happy in every thing: her own present and future prospects were without a cloud, and the presence of every friend she loved upon earth made her felicity most rare in its perfection.

"Mine is a strange history," said Montravers to Mrs. Mortimer. "Who could have thought, when I turned from poor Rose Morgan so broken-hearted, that her daughter yet unborn was destined to console me for all past sorrows? Nay, who could have thought, when I received this child from her arms in her latest moments, that she was given to her future husband? Now, I believe not only that I was unworthy of happiness in the miserable days of my youth, but that I was actually incapable of it; but if I find it not, and secure it not now, so far as mortals may, for my dear bride, I shall indeed be a marvel to myself, -- a very incarnation of discontent."

"Yes," replied the lady he addressed, "naturally as the links are connected, the whole chain of events is indeed surprising; and not the least so, that I should thus suddenly reappear upon the scene at the marriage of both mother and daughter; on purpose, it would seem, to speak the moral of the drama. Your mother, Mrs. Montravers, asked me long years ago what good purpose Providence could have designed in the many trials of Montravers; -- he knows now wherefore he has suffered, for he would, I trust, bear sorrow meekly now, as coming from the hand of the All-wise and All-merciful, even though his bride were demanded from him."

"Oh, Heaven forbid!" cried Montravers, pressing his Lucy to his heart. "Let us rather, gratefully and constantly acknowledging our blessings, trust that they will long be preserved to us!"

"I say amen from my heart!" said Harry Mortimer; and the two young brides exchanged glances of sympathy.

The carriages were announced, and Montravers and Lucy were successively transported to London, Paris, Switzerland, and Italy; and when, after two years, they returned to Yeoverin Lodge, Mrs. Goodall welcomed with rapture, not them alone, -- but an infant heir of the line whose extinction she had almost expected to see in the bachelor survivor of a numerous family.

FINIS.