CHAPTER I.

In which Peregrine Pultuney and his Associates arrive safely at Calcutta.

In the days of which we are writing, though not so very far removed from the present, ships arriving from Europe, and other places were compelled to make their own way up the Hooghly river in the best manner they could. The Steaming Company, like Guy Fawkes in the song, "wasn't born till arter that" some time; and so the Hastings was necessitated to "drag it's slow length along" anchoring and weighing anchor, tacking and drifting, and fifty other things that a sailing vessel has to do, when there are tides and streams and winds and sandbanks, and various other impediments of that kind to diversify its passage up the river.

What an uncommon fine thing in poetry is the rolling tide of the sinuous Ganges, but how wretchedly unpoetical is this said Ganges in reality, as you enter it from the Bay of Bengal. It is not commonplace, for the utter absence of one redeeming feature to render it in the least degree picturesque, prevents it from being that. It is, in fact, almost sublime from the utter absence of beauty it exhibits. It is so desolate, so unlovely, so unearthly in its aspect, that, as you look upon it, you can scarcely believe it to be a part of that world which God made, and said that it was good. After a sojourn of months on the great waters, the first sight of land, if there is any thing about it that wears the least look of gladsomeness, is hailed by the weary voyager as a very Paradise, and is decked out, as he views it with the eye of his imagination, in exaggerated tints of joyousness and beauty; but for the voyager, as he enters the Hooghly river, though there be youth on hi3 cheek, and hope in his heart, and abundant fancy in his brain, there is not one object to gladden his eyes, not one sight to raise pleasant expectations. All seems characteristic of the world he is about to enter, where sickness and death and desolation are the grand ingredients of the cup that is offered to him.

That Peregrine Pultuney looked upon the low, barren land upon either side of the muddy river, with such gloomy anticipations as those which we have set down in this last paragraph, we do not very confidently state; but that he, in common with every other griffin in the ship, was grievously disappointed is most undeniably true. It was in the month of August, and it rained as it always does in August, with a perseverance that would be highly praiseworthy in any thing or any person less objectionable. The river was swollen and brown; the sky black and lowering; and the country on either side looked for all the world like the flower garden of the gaunt Fever King.

It is a pleasant thing to be very young -- young in heart we mean, for there are alas! too many, who grow old in their very teens; but Peregrine Pultuney was not one of these. Suffering and he had never shaken hands, and so joyous was his disposition, that neither the rains of August, nor the low jungles of the strange country he was entering, nor the dirty river, nor the wet deck, nor his leaky cabin could chase the smile from his rosy lips, the sunshine from his gladsome heart. It would be worth while being a griff again if only to recover the rosy lips and the gladsome heart, for the year and the day, which are said to mark the period of griffinage.

Beneath a good stout awning, on the poop of the Hastings, stood Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks each with a cigar in his mouth, and each wrapped up in a blue camlet cloak. They were too much engaged with their thoughts or their cheroots to be very communicative the one to the other. It was just one of those days which makes the man who is no smoker covet a cheroot, and the man who is a smoker have one between his lips from the time he gets up in the morning till the time that he goes to bed. And so every body was smoking on the poop of the Hastings, the pilot was smoking, and the chief officer was smoking, and old Colonel Coteloll was smoking, and Major Lackywell, the ex A. D. C., and even Doleton had got a cigar, though it was evidently making him feel very uncomfortable, and was causing him to expectorate more than was good for his lungs.

"Well," said Julian Jenks, at last, being the first to break the silence, "what do you think of this: a confounded hole, isn't it? Looks like, I don't know what -- and this is what they call India."

"I'm afraid it is," said Peregrine Pultuney.

"Well, now," continued his friend, "it's my candid opinion, that without one exception this is the most uninteresting looking place I ever saw in my life, the fens of Lincolnshire are nothing to it."

"Nothing," echoed Peregrine Pultuney.

"It hasn't a saving point about it. I'm blest if it don't beat Addiscombe -- beat the ship -- beat every thing I've ever seen -- a confounded hole, Peregrine, without a single redeeming quality -- not a d -- d one of any sort or description," and having given vent to his feelings in these words, Julian Jenks came to anchor on a hencoop, and took up a Calcutta paper that was lying thereon with a telescope stretching across it to keep it from fluttering overboard or making an excursion into the rigging.

"What's that you've got there?" asked Peregrine.

"The Bengal Hurk -- " returned Jenks -- "Hurk -- Hurk -- Hurkaru. What's the meaning of Hurkaru, major?"

The gentleman thus addressed was Major Lackywell, a person of some consequence in his own estimation, with a sovereign contempt for a griff. This state of feeling, however, did not arise from any natural pride or uncharitableness, but from the extraordinary importance he attached in his mind to a knowledge of Indian affairs. He was from head to foot a thorough Orientalist -- mixed up Hindustani words in his every day conversation, was always talking about the "Upper Provinces" and the "Mofussil," and prided himself upon a knowledge of Eastern manners and customs, such as no one had ever possessed before him.

He had been, much against his own inclinations, necessitated to pay a visit to Europe, on account of a severe liver-complaint; and now, though very far from recovered -- though indeed he was going to his grave, and he knew it -- he was in uncommonly good spirits at the prospect of being about so soon to tread the shores of India once again and to return to his old pursuits. It was on this account that his contempt for a griffin manifested itself on the present occasion, in a facetious attempt to hoax Julian Jenks and, if he could, Peregrine Pultuney. What a glorious opportunity was here of showing off his own superior knowledge, and having a joke at the expense of the griffs. He was quite kush, as he would have said, at the thought of it.

"What's the meaning of Hurharu, major?" asked Julian Jenks.

"The Sun, to be sure," replied Major Lackywell.

"The Bengal Sun -- thank you, major," said the griff. "I shall learn these things in time, I suppose."

Julian Jenks went on reading, and Peregrine Pultuney having nothing better to do, sat down to follow his example. He took up another number of the Bengal Hurkaru, and there he read a number of very important items of intelligence, and commented upon them as he went on, just as people do when they take up a paper out of sheer idleness and nothing else.

"The commander-in-chief is going home," said Peregrine -- "d -- n it all -- that's just like my luck; I don't know what he was not to have done for me -- made me his aide-de-camp or something. I have got at least a score of letters for him, and, moreover, he has promised to help me. Confound it all -- quarrelled with the governor. I wish the governor was at the devil -- can't be helped -- what next? Supreme Court, nothing in my way there -- 'Messrs. Tulloch and Co. will sell by auction the following equipages and horses: -- A nearly new half-panelled Steward's buggy,' very good -- 'a beautiful grey Arab' -- better still -- 'a fashionable Dykes's barouche, with spring-cushions' -- wait 'till I'm married. Theatre Chowringhee -- Rob Roy -- shall make a point of going there certainly. General Orders -- look to them presently -- Runjeet Singh's dead -- very good -- pray, major, who is Runjeet Singh?'

"Chief justice of Bengal," replied the major, with an ill-suppressed smile upon his face.

"Thank you, major, thank you," replied Peregrine; "We live and learn, don't we, major? -- Well, what next? Domestic Occurrences -- 'died at Neemuch on the 3rd inst., Lieutenant-Colonel Marmaduke Maidaun, 82d regiment native Infantry.'"

"What's that -- what's that?" -- interrupted the major, eagerly; "what's that? -- Lieutenant-Colonel Maidaun?"

"Yes," said Peregrine, with the utmost calmness, and a countenance expressive of no inward emotion -- "Yes; Major-Colonel Marmaduke Maidaun."

"What regiment -- what regiment?" almost gasped the major. "What regiment did you Bay?"

"Let me see, where is it, I have lost the place," returned Peregrine Pultuney in a calm, slow voice, as he passed his finger down the page. "Ah! here it is, 82nd native infantry, died at Neemuch, aged fifty-three."

"Bless my soul!" cried the major, in great agitation. "That promotes me -- and in my own regiment, too -- how lucky! -- show me the paper -- let me see it with my own eyes."

"Take it by all means," cried Peregrine, and as he said this he held out the paper in such a manner, that it caught the full strength of the south-west monsoon -- he felt it fluttering in his hand, let it go purposely -- and in less than a minute he had the pleasure of seeing it floating tranquilly down the Hooghly.

"Damnation!" cried the major; "it's gone."

"How provoking," said Peregrine Pultuney; "I thought you had got hold of it, major" -- and as that gentleman turned away thoroughly mortified, Peregrine poked his friend Julian Jenks in the ribs, and said to him in a low voice, "I had him there, hadn't I, Jenks? He won't sell me a bargain again in a hurry. The idea of thinking that I was such a fool as to believe that Runjeet Singh was chief justice of Bengal.

"Did you read that in the paper?" asked Julian.

"Not a word of it," returned our hero; "but I had been turning over the Army List in the morning; and I knew that Colonel Marmaduke Maidaun was just before Lackywell, in the regiment -- so I stuck it into him as strong as I could, and then sent the paper a-drift."

"Bravo! my fine fellow," cried Julian Jenks, giving force to his expressions of admiration by slapping Peregrine with considerable energy, upon the back.

Mr. Pultuney after this triumph over the major, (for which indeed he was indebted more to accident, than to his own sagacity; for it so happened that Lackywell was the senior regimental major in the hue) read a few more paragraphs in another paper, laid it down again, lit a fresh cigar, looked about him for a few seconds, and perceiving Mr. Doleton standing by himself, and gazing over the sides of the vessel with a vacant expression of countenance, rose up from his seat on the hencoop, and walked towards the nervous youth, with the benevolent intention of leading him into conversation.

"Well, Doleton," said our hero to the poor boy, who looked as miserable as he possibly could be, but whether from the effects of the cigar or of any mental causes of inquietude Peregrine Pultuney, at that time did not know. "Well, Doleton, how goes it with you? -- I suppose you are as happy as you can be."

Peregrine Pultuney did not suppose any thing of the kind, but he thought that this modus operandi was more likely that any other to assist him in probing the wound that was tormenting the poor fellow, and without this probing he knew very well that there was no hope of accomplishing a cure or even of affording him the least alleviation; so he must be forgiven if the figure of speech he employed was not strictly in accordance with the genuine truth.

"I suppose you are as happy as you can be," observed Peregrine -- "the happiest of the whole party."

"Oh! yes -- very," returned Doleton, lifting up his pale face as he spoke -- "I am happy -- of course I am happy -- why should I not be happy, Pultuney?"

"Why, indeed?" asked that gentleman.

"Why, indeed?" repeated Cadet Doleton -- "why, indeed? and am I not happy -- do I not look happy, Pultuney?"

"Why, I can't say exactly that you do," said Peregrine Pultuney, with a smile upon his face.

"No!" exclaimed the poor youth, in most mournful accents, which effectually belied all attempts upon his part to appear any thing but most wretched. "Well then, I suppose I don't -- but you know that appearances are deceitful sometimes -- I may be happy and yet not look so."

"Scarcely that," remarked Peregrine Pultuney.

"Well then," continued Doleton, "perhaps I am not -- not quite -- not altogether happy -- I am not very fond of change -- I have been happy on board ship, at least ever since that Draw -- ever since, I mean, we left the Cape, and then I have friends on board, dear friends, whom I shall be sorry to leave, very sorry, there is you, Pultuney, and Jenks -- and, and -- "

"Lucretia Gowanspec," suggested Peregrine Pultuney.

"No, no," faltered Doleton, blushing deep as crimson; "no, no, I didn't say her, she's a sweet girl, though, Pultuney -- a very sweet girl, indeed; and those kisses too -- I think of them all day -- I dream of them all night; but do you know, Pultuney, I do not quite think that she loves me, as she used to do; ever since that unfortunate night, I have fallen sadly in her good opinion."

"No, no," said Peregrine Pultuney; "no, no -- not that -- but young girls, you know, in her situation, must dissemble sometimes -- do not think of her, though, my good fellow, think of your father and mother."

"Ah! yes," sighed the poor youth, "I do think of them very often; but there is something so strange, Pultuney, so vague, so awful, indeed, in the thought of meeting, at my age, my own parents, my very own parents -- perhaps, they might not love -- might not even like me -- I have heard say that my father is all in all a soldier -- brave as a lion -- and hot-headed too -- perhaps, you see -- perhaps, he may not be kind to me -- perhaps he will -- bitter, bitter -- "

Doleton would have added, "despise me," but conscious as he was of his infirmity, and well as he knew that Peregrine Pultuney was fully as well acquainted with it as himself, there were seasons when the bitterness of his shame checked the avowals that were making their way to his lips. Peregrine was deeply affected; he almost loved the unfortunate youth ; on account of his very weakness, and fain would he always have thrown the mantle of his protection over him. On the present occasion, he scarcely knew what to say; he looked about him for a hint, and, as good luck would have it, one presented itself, in the shape of a large boat, which was tacking down upon them from the larboard side, filled with natives, who were making a considerable noise, jabbering and shouting, and sending forth certain utterly indescribable sounds, which doubtless assisted them very much in the strenuous exertions they were making to pull alongside of the Hastings.

Peregrine had just directed the attention of poor Doleton towards the boat and the natives in it, when Julian Jenks and Major Lackywell joined our hero, each with a telescope in his hand, and both of them apparently very much interested in the progress of the boat that was bearing down upon them, though nothing could have been more different than the nature of the interest it excited.

"Look," said Peregrine, "look at that boat -- a jolly fat crew, isn't it?"

"Yes, yes," returned Doleton, nervously; "what a savage set of fellows they look -- and the boat, Pultuney, look there -- it will be upset -- I'm sure it will."

"I hope not," fervently ejaculated Major Lackywell, "I -- hope -- not."

"The niggers can swim, I suppose," said Julian Jenks; "it would be good fun to see them, I think."

"Fun to you, Jenks, but death to them, as the frogs said to the boys," returned Peregrine.

"But who are they? -- what are they?' asked Doleton, anxiously; "what are they coming here about?"

"What are they coming here about?" said the major; "you may well ask that, Mr. Doleton -- you see that man there with the belt and the brass plate -- that's one of the Mysore princes."

"Mysore princes!" exclaimed Doleton, who had a vague recollection of having once read something about the storming of Seringapatam; "Mysore princes, sir! -- Indeed! not Tippo Sahib, is it, sir?"

"Let me see," returned Major Lackywell, with an unaltered physiognomy, as he raised the telescope to his eye and took a leisurely survey of the boat; "no -- not Tippo Sahib, certainly, but Hyder Ali."

"Blessine!" ejaculated Doleton; "Hyder Ali! that horrid wretch -- what has he come here for?"

"It's difficult to say," returned the major; "but perhaps -- no matter -- no matter, Mr. Doleton, I do not wish to alarm you."

Nothing could have been more charitable than this, inasmuch as that if Major Lackywell had told the unfortunate youth, that Hyder Ali and Tippo Sahib together, were coming on board for the express purpose of making their tiffin off Doleton's carcass, it would not have filled him with so much dismay as this vague and awful hint of some coming danger, too terrible to be put into words -- indistinctness, as all poets and rhetoricians know, being the true source of the terrible and sublime. But Doleton's fears were but short-lived, for Peregrine Pultuney had only just whispered in his ear the expressive word, "gammon," when the chief officer, who was a gentleman with a considerable reach of lung, bawled out to some of the men forward to get a rope ready for the dâk-boat, and presently ensued a great deal of scuffling and hallooing, and a rope was thrown overboard from the gangway, and the boat's crew, for the boat was by this time alongside of the vessel, all began jabbering together as fast as ever they could, and the rope's-end was caught by the scrang, and the boat made fast to the Hastings, and then a gentleman of colour, in the Asiatic costume, made his appearance over the gangway, with a large leather bag, and the captain sallied out of the cabin, with very strong demonstrations of anxiety, and seized hold of the said leather bag, and in less than five minutes the cuddy was full of people, and the cuddy-table strewn all over with letters.

It is an anxious moment that, with very many, when the dâk-boat comes alongside of a vessel that is just entering port. How the heart beats! how the hand trembles! as the sable Mercury appears upon deck, with the richly freighted bag in hand. Months have passed by, since the voyager can have heard aught of his friends in the country he is voyaging to, and what mighty changes may be engendered in the womb of Time during such an interval. There is the wife, perhaps, returning to her husband -- the children returning to their parents -- the young damsel seeking her betrothed. How sick with excess of anxiety! how oppressed with nameless forebodings of evil are they! as they open, or in their weakness cause another to open, the all important letter that is fraught with such an infinity of good or evil tidings -- so much rapture, or so much woe. We have heard the hysterical burst of bitter disappointment that has followed the sudden prostration of a long-cherished hope attendant upon the opening of the dâk-bag. We have seen the pale face grow paler -- the clenched hand clenched still faster -- the trembling frame still more tremulous, as the eye dimly wanders over the characters, every one of which is a very death-stab -- the lover is, perhaps, absent or faithless -- the parent or sole relative is no more -- the beloved husband is on active service, struggling through the briary path of danger, and the betrothed, the child, the wife, are desolate -- not a friend, perhaps, to receive them on their arrival at a strange port, fifteen thousand miles from the land of their nativity.

But these are the darker features of the picture -- there are others, doubtless, more sunny -- indeed, if we leave off generalizing, and return to the dâk-bag of the Hastings, we shall see that the opening of these receptacles of thought is not always attended with disappointment, for there, as it happened, almost every body who got any intelligence at all, got precisely the kind of intelligence they wanted. The Miss Gowanspecs received a letter from their aunt, to say that she was very anxious to see them -- hoped that they had brought out all the latest fashions, and lost none of their roses on the voyage -- hinted that young ladies were very scarce just then in Calcutta, and what there were very ordinary -- trusted in her heart that neither of her nieces had encouraged an undue familiarity in any body on board ship, especially the young military men -- and wound up by informing them, that her carriage should be waiting for them at Ghandpaul ghaut, whenever the ship was likely to arrive.

Major Lackywell received letters, but to his great astonishment, they did not say one word about his promotion. Colonel Coteloll was equally fortunate, but his letters were mainly on business, announcing that a house had been taken for him in Chowringhee, and rooms engaged for him, on first landing, at Spence's. Mr. Factor received an invitation from an old friend of his, resident in Calcutta; and the captain got a vast packet of advices, chiefly relating to the price of articles and the prospect that he had of making a good thing by his investments.

In the meantime Peregrine Pultuney, Julian Jenks, and poor Doleton, were gathered together at one end of the cuddy table, each of them reading a letter. There is one great advantage at all events in being a military griffin, that, come what may, he is sure to have lodgings provided for him by the tender mercies of the barrack department; and so it happens that cadets, of all people in the world, are least anxious about the arrival of the dâk-boat, they have no fears about finding a house, no anxiety about promotion, and in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, they are wise enough to have no anxieties at all.

But it must be admitted, that Cadet Doleton was an exception to this general rule, as indeed he was to every other. He was full -- chock-full of anxieties. His hand trembled, and his cheek blanched, and his heart beat almost audibly, as he opened the letter that was addressed to him, and read the commencement -- "My dear son." For some time he continued poring over the epistle, with his elbows on the cuddy table, his forehead pressed against his clenched hands, and his eyes fixed on the paper -- it was difficult to say whether he was reading or not.

How long he might have remained in this position, we know not, if Julian Jenks, who had very soon made himself master of the contents of his letter, which was merely from an old Addiscombe fellow-student, had not applied the palm of his hand pretty smartly to the back of the nervous youth, and having awakened him from his revery by the application, exclaimed, "Well, Doleton, what news?"

"News -- eh-?' asked the poor youth, gazing round him like a person suddenly awakened from a sound sleep; "news -- eh? -- I don't know -- I've got a letter from my father."

"You're in luck," said Julian; "I wish I had."

"Luck," repeated Doleton -- "what's that? Ah! true, I suppose I am lucky -- my father's on leave at Calcutta."

"You lucky dog, I wish mine were," ejaculated Julian, with much fervour.

"And so do I," exclaimed Peregrine Pultuney; "but I am in luck's way too -- I've got an old aunt at the Presidency, and she's better than nothing."

"Has she sent you an invite?" asked Julian.

"Of course she has," returned Peregrine; "and the best of it is, she has got a daughter."

"Heigh!" ejaculated Julian Jenks, with a most exquisitely humorous wink of the eye, "a charming woman of course,

'With a dozen of tall Irish cousins
Whom she loves in a sisterly way.'"

Peregrine replied to this sally of facetiousness, by poking his friend in the ribs, and after a slight interchange of practical civilities, the two young men repaired again to the poop to continue their observations upon Indian scenery.

In the absence of steam, a good south-west monsoon is not such a very contemptible thing to help a ship up the river; so being in the full enjoyment of this advantage, the Hastings, made what would be considered very tolerable progress even in these steam-tugging days. We have ourselves sailed from Saugor point to the Calcutta Mint in one morning, as mornings are generally computed in genteel society, meaning thereby, that we were opposite to the only "Pagoda Tree," whose existence we are aware of in this country, before three o'clock p. m., Baron Monkhausen, or Colonel --, may have done it in less time, but we can name our ship.

But to return from this little digression to our friends, Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks, who are still upon the poop of the Hastings, making, like Dr. Syntax, their notes on the picturesque) or rather the unpicturesque; for it must be acknowledged that Diamond Harbour and Mud Point are not the fittest subjects in the world for the sketcher. But there was the Semanhore at the former place, tossing about its arms, and there was an alligator at the latter, which Major Lackywell was pleased to point out as a mosquito, thinking in his innocence, that he was most elaborately witty, in thus re-animating a deceased joke. As the river narrowed, the banks grew a little more interesting, if any interest can possibly be attached to a few stunted trees and an occasional mud hut, into which no gentleman farmer in England .would be cruel enough to turn his pigs. Still they were objects, and that is something after a long voyage, where the only objects are the masts of your ship, the sky, the sea, and the horizon.

Wind and tide ,being favourable, and plenty of water, the Hastings reached Fultah about five o'clock on the evening of the second day after the pilot took command of the vessel, and as the tide failed them about this time, they cast anchor opposite the Fultah Hotel, now a melancholy and unsightly ruin, though were its windows so many mouths instead of eyes, it might tell of many a joyous carousal, of many orgies, and some perhaps unhallowed ones, of which that tumbling pile, in days of yore, was the chosen seat and the silent witness. The old hands of course were full of it, as they always are, whenever they approach it, and volunteered a vast deal of information to the youngsters, beginning with, "I remember when that place," and ending with a personal anecdote, which said anecdotes in general, and Colonel Coteloirs in particular, had such an effect upon Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks, that they insisted on going ashore in a native boat and exploring the old ruin.

This they did considerably to their own improvement and satisfaction, as they afterwards informed everybody; and having gone over the skeleton hotel, and moralized amongst its ruins, like Marius at Carthage, they made a little diversion into the bazaar, with the laudable purpose of gaining some knowledge of the manners and customs of the natives, in which attempt, however, though perfectly well intended, they did not meet with the success they anticipated, for as the only Hindustani words they knew were brandy paunie and jou, they did not make much way with the inhabitants of Fultah, who clamoured very loudly for buxees, a word which Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks took for a term of respect, but which in reality implied that they had a very high opinion of nothing at all but the young gentlemen's griffinism.

However, they returned to the ship without any particular adventure, took a pretty stiff tumbler of "hot with," and then turned into bed with the delightful prospect before them of being awakened before daylight by those Tartarean sounds which the joint efforts of the capstan and the chain cable, call into being, whenever they are excited.

But it was the last day, that was a comfort; and in a few hours after turning out of his cot, our hero passed the many-windowed factory at Fort Gloster -- then, in a little while, doubled the Cape, which goes by the name of Point Melancholy, because a young lady is said to have chosen that spot to do a bit of Sterne's Maria in, with a favourite young crocodile in blue ribbands for her companion -- then on to the Botanical Gardens, where ladies and gentlemen go in the cold weather to drink champagne and talk nonsense al fresco -- then, on passing Garden Reach, where the river begins to wear a more earthly aspect, and to remind one a little of Putney or Kew -- pass the Fort, where an artillery sergeant boarded the Hastings, to the great dismay of Cadet Doleton, Avho thought that he was coming to take charge of the cadets along the side of the strand, now deserted and forlorn -- on, on: every passenger on deck, whether griffin or old Indian, gazing intently on the noble abodes of the city of palaces, that had now unfolded themselves to the view -- on, still on, till a comfortable berth for the vessel was found near Chandpaul ghaut; and then was heard the welcome cry, in accents becoming it, of "let go the anchor," and tearing, and dragging, and creaking, and wrenching, the anchor was "let go" for the last time, and the voyage of the Hastings was ended.

CHAPTER II.

Contefining a Description of Calcutta and other Things very pleasant to read of.

It is a remarkable fact that young ladies, on their way to India, attach a vast degree of importance to the landing part of their career, upon the principle no doubt, that c'est la premier pas qui coute. Long before they reach the Cape, the important subject is broached as to what bonnet and what gown they are to land in, and before the Cape is fairly doubled, the matter is set at rest by the point at issue being peremptorily determined. All this deliberation, no doubt, is the result of an impression upon the young ladies' minds, that all the society of Calcutta is poured forth upon the strand whenever a vessel arrives, to watch the disembarkment of its passengers, and to make strictures upon the personal qualifications of the young ladies disembarked. This, however, is in some small measure different from the reality, for although there are always crowds of people collected at the ghaut to watch the disembarkment of passengers, the crowd consists of dhingy-wallahs, palki-bearers, and coolies, instead of nigh civilians, wealthy agents, and military officers on the staff; and it being doubtful to what extent these dhingywallahs, and others are competent judges of grosde-Naples, and mouslins-de-laine, it has always struck us that a vast deal of forethought and deliberation is expended on these occasions, to no purpose. The young lady is transferred from the ship to the boleau, from the boleau into the carriage, and from the carriage into the drawingroom of her friends, unseen and unadmired by any living creature, except perhaps the syces, and the coachman, and, if she happens to be exceedingly fortunate, by the friend who has made the exertion to go to the ghaut to fetch her.

The Miss Gowanspecs, however, were not so fortunate, for though they were elaborately dressed, and certainly looked very pretty, they were greeted by nothing more substantial than a short chit from their aunt, who was afraid about the weather, uncertain about the time, and a thousand other things besides, which prevented her from proceeding to the ghaut, but which, nevertheless, as a matter of course, had no effect upon the anxiety she felt to embrace her dear nieces, &c., and to show her gratitude to the memory of her late lamented brother, by every possible kindness to his children, an expression of feeling which, upon her part, was exceedingly praiseworthy, as, with the exception of her own self, she had never cared for a human creature in her life.

The Miss Gowanspecs were tempting-looking girls at any time, and now, all arrayed in their best as they were, they looked more tempting than ever. They were most unexceptionably attired, with the prettiest artificial flowers ever seen, inside their bonnets, and the neatest little patent-leather shoes that ever set off a pair of pretty feet. They were, in fact, armed for conquest; what wonder then, that poor Doleton, as he took his last longing, lingering look at Miss Lucretia, should have felt his heart dying within him, and his eyes suffusing with tears; what wonder then that Mister Peregrine Pultuney, should have taken the opportunity, when nobody was looking, of taking an affectionate leave of Miss Lucretia Gowanspec, behind the mizen-mast in the rear of the cuddy.

But the hour of parting was at hand; young gentlemen with their carpet-bags, and young ladies with their band-boxes, were standing on the deck and looking over the gangway. Sircars and chuprassies were every minute coming over the sides of the vessel, some on the look-out for orders, and some bearing chits to the passengers. And there was a vast deal of bustle and confusion and talking, and a great number of last words to be said -- and one person remembered he had lent a book, and another remembered that he had not returned one, and then there was a bet or two to be paid, and a promise or two to be reminded, and every body seemed in a great hurry to get on shore as fast as they could.

The Miss Gowanspecs were seen off in charge of a most sedate-looking, white-bearded old chuprassey, who seemed to go through the thing as though he were used to it, without wasting any breath in vain attempts to make himself understood by talking. Cadet Doleton was claimed by his father, Colonel Gregory Doleton, of the 93d native infantry, who came on board to take possession of his son. He was a tall, fierce-looking man, with black eyes and very large whiskers and was esteemed to be the greatest Turk in the whole of the company's army.

How they met and what was said at the meeting we are not quite competent to tell, but as Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks were making their way over the gangway, they saw poor Doleton standing by his father's side, with his eyes fixed upon the ground, silent and inactive. There was a look of disappointment in the parent's face, which told a long and melancholy history, and Peregrine, as he saw them there, standing together, constrained, embarrassed, distressed, thought that they looked as unlike a father who had just regained a son, and a son who had just regained a father, as it was possible for any two human creatures, in their situation, to appear.

But leaving the melancholy youth to the tender guidance of his father, we must follow Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks over the side of the vessel and into the dinghy, or rude native boat, in which our friend Peer Khan had already stowed a few of his master's moveables, Mr. Jenks's sac de nuit, and a bundle of his own, consisting of a clean turban, a wooden pipe, and a number of pice, which, not having been found to be in England the current coin of the realm, he had for the last year and a half been hoarding up as carefully as though they had been so many double sovereigns.

It must have been a pleasant sight to have marked closely the behaviour of Peer Khan, upon first finding himself once again in the society of men speaking his own language, and wearing his own complexion. It must have been pleasant to have seen him off Kedgeree, leaning over the gangway and conversing with the natives in the dâk-boat, in a sort of consequential, coxcombical manner, very harmless and pardonable, however, for it implied nothing more than that he had got back again to his own proper element, and that he had the advantage of the white men there. It must have been pleasant, too, to have seen him a little higher up the river, chatting in a familiar, gossiping style, with the banians and sircars, who, on the look-out for jobs, had boarded the Hastings, seeking whom they should devour; and pleasant would it have been, with a full cognizance of the language, to have stood by and heard him talk about the things he had seen -- the manners and the customs of the Ferringhee-logue -- and the strange places he had visited in his travels. He talked, indeed, as though he would never be tired of hearing himself talking in his own Bengalee -- a pleasure so long denied -- and, in truth, we question much if there was another person in the ship, whose heart, had there been a window in his breast to peep through, would have presented an aspect half so sunny as that which shone in the bosom of the Mahomedan. But nobody thought of him -- nobody sympathized with him -- nobody supposed for a moment that he had any feelings, or possibly could have any feelings, like their own. But not on that account were they less delightful to him? -- he enjoyed them, though he was Hack.

But it was a still more exhilarating thing to see the hearty good-will, with which this faithful follower of the prophet laid about him with both his fists, when the dinghy reached the steps of the Ghaut, and our friends were surrounded upon every side by coolies and palki-bearers, all striving to get hold of master's moveables and indeed of master's self bodily. Nor was it a less pleasing spectacle to behold the rapidity with which he put to flight a a small detachment of Rum Johnnies, who were congregated at the ghaut, offering their services most obsequiously to the griffins, fawning and salaaming with all their might. Never did a servant in the whole world make himself more "generally useful" than Peer Khan did in this conjuncture, and if, after having done good service with his fists, and procured two very decent palankins for Peregrine Pultuney and his friend, he did laugh a little to see the strange attempts that these young gentlemen made, at affecting an entrance into the vehicles aforesaid, he must not be accused of very great disrespect.

However, they did, at last, contrive to insert their bodies, after the most approved fashion, into the wooden boxes opened to receive them; and, easy as the process may appear to gentlemen who are used to it, we are bound to say, that many much wiser people than Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks have found no little difficulty in it at first. Palankins are going out of fashion now, and some absurd people have taken it into their heads that they lose caste by entering them. A palankin, in the minds of our home-staying friends, is inseparably connected with all one's ideas of an Indian life, especially when the object of one's thoughts is a great person at a presidency. But it is a truth that great people at the presidencies do not enter a palankin from year's end to year's end, and scarcely a gentleman in Calcutta has got one. Everybody now moves out in a carriage, and the more English-looking the carriage is, the more it is esteemed by the great folks. The lace of chobdars are extinct -- we never see a silver Stick now.

But palankins in the streets of Calcutta, are what hackney-coaches and cabs are in London, always ready in the most public thoroughfares, for the convenience of gentlemen, who have no carriages of their own. Very useful, too, they are sometimes, especially to new arrivals like our friends of the Hastings; and Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks, if they did nothing else, enjoyed the novelty of their ride to Spence's, at which place we shall deposit them, without more ado, in the full enjoyment of an excellent tiffin, with the discussion of which they had long ago determined, under any combination of circumstances, to commence their Indian career.

And thus, having located our hero in Calcutta, it would be but proper, we think, to describe what sort of a place Calcutta really is. We have nothing to do with what it ought to be -- we leave all that to the fertile imaginations of panorama-makers and writers of travels. In these volumes we have confined ourselves exclusively to the real, and intending to do so throughout, we are afraid that we cannot embellish our picture of Calcutta with any very gorgeous assemblages of caparisoned elephants and Indian princes, glittering with jewels and gold. Troops of mounted Mamelukes, on capering Arabs, with long spears resting on the toes of their upcurling slippers, we cannot admit into our sketch; and although there is a great plain in the front of the city, and plenty of green pasturage, we are sorry to say, that "browsing camels" with their "tinkling bells" have no legitimate place in the picture we intend to offer of the City of Palaces, "as it is."

The truth is, that there is an act of the legislative council, and has been for many years, prohibiting the entrance of elephants and camels within the bounds of the Mahratta ditch, and it must be acknowledged that the act, though it exhibits an utter disregard to the picturesque, and the claims of picture-makers in general, is one which has a beneficial tendency in saving from annihilation the limbs of her majesty's subjects. "But then," exclaims the European reader, "what is an Indian city without elephants and camels to embellish it?" Patience, sweet reader, and we will do our utmost to tell thee most truly what it is.

Calcutta is not without its just claims to the title it enjoys of the" City of Palaces." Approaching it, as every stranger does, from the river, it bursts upon one in all the magnificence of its stately porticoes and pillars. A mass of splendid edifices greets the eye, each one of which would have a noble effect, standing by itself, like an English mansion, on a gentle slope in a wooded park -- but here the effect of one is destroyed by the contiguity of another -- the coup d'ceil is singularly striking, but there is no focus of attraction -- even the governmenthouse, which has narrowly escaped being one of the most magnificent structures that ever sheltered monarch or viceroy, is lost amidst the number of noble buildings that hem it in on every side, and seem almost to jostle for the presidence. The city is built upon a dead level -- and the principal part of it, speaking with reference not to statistics, but to pictorial effect, encloses an irregular quadrilateral figure, the area of which is a spacious maidaun, or plain, intersected here and there by carriage roads, and dotted with a few tanks. One side of this figure is skirted by the Hooghly, from which the tall masts of a hundred merchant vessels stand up against the sky. On a second, is Fort William, with its green ramparts, and its white barracks, and its Gothic church -- a fort, which, though scarcely one in a thousand looks at it with an eye to any thing else but its quarters, might gladden the heart of old Vauban or Carnot, if the shades of those bastion-making worthies were once again to revisit the earth. On the third side, is a grand row of palaces, where dwell the monied worthies of the presidency -- the Park-place of Calcutta, Chowringhee -- and on the fourth are to be seen a still nobler mass of buildings -- the Government-house, the Town-hall, the Supreme Court, and many others of the public offices.

But, grand as all this seems in description, and grand as is the coup d'ceil in reality, there is an inconsistency about its grandeur which must forcibly strike any new arrival, past his boyhood. Perhaps there is not a nobler row of houses in the world than that which stretches along the Chowringhee-road, and yet you do not pass half a dozen of them before you stumble on a batch of miserable native huts, . which are about as much out of place as a row of: pigsties would be in the middle of Regent-street. Nor is this all -- for there is a lamentable incongruity between the noble structures of Calcutta and the any-thing-but-noble aspect of the living creatures who are seen about it. Instead of the caparisoned elephant, and the golden umbrella, and the decorated palankin with its liveried out-runners, we see the primitive-looking native bullock-cart, as it creaks along the dusty road -- the wretched, dilapidated carhancky, or hack-carriage of Bengal, filled with some half dozen fat natives, and drawn by a pair of lean and wall-eyed ponies, threatening every moment to part with at least one of its wheels, and groaning beneath the mass of ghee inflated flesh that _ it carries. Perhaps a dirty hack palankin or two, and a ditto on wheels, called a palki gharee, which looks like a miniature omnibus, may be seen going across the plain; and if to these we add a buggy, with a young civilian in it, driving about to make his morning calls (they are really morning calls in India), and a doctor's chariot rattling along the Chowringhee-road at fever heat, we have said as much as can be said about the equipages which embellish the picture of Calcutta. As for foot passengers, there are many and many-sorted, but they are not such as we see in the annual prints and panoramas. There are no Indian princes, in jewelled turbans, and silken raiment, but there are plenty of coolies, with no turbans at all, and a lamentable deficiency of raiment. Here and there are to be seen boxwallahs, or native hawkers, in their clean white muslin dresses, not like our hawkers, bearing the burden of their own goods, but preceded by three or four semi-nude porters with the boxes nicely balanced on their heads. Then everywhere you may see hosts of little black children, not semi-nude but nude altogether, with their long hair, and their bright eyes, and their swollen bodies, playing about in the dust, or congregated on the plain, flying their little paper kites with the greatest possible elation of spirits. Around the tanks, in the neighbourhood of the Government-house, you may see gathered together a swarm of bheesties, or water-carriers; with their red cloths around their middle, and their mussachs, or great leather water-bags, slung round their backs, with the mouth thereof under the arm; and at almost every gate you may see the whiskered and moustached durwan, or door-keeper, with a crimson turban on his head, and a hubble-bubble, or wooden pipe, in his mouth, all ready to strike the gong, and warn his employer of the approach of a stranger. Along the streets you may see trudging the peons, or messengers, with their belts and badges of office, carrying letters or small parcels from one house to another; whilst here and there, but at rare intervals, you may chance to alight on a Portuguese or East Indian in the European dress, walking along beneath an umbrella, and looking as though he heartily wished himself home again. There is j nothing very splendid in all this, and yet there is something picturesque, something pleasing in the tout-ensemble. The fact is, that the native costume is immeasurably superior in this respect to our own, and although one does see a large proportion of dirty, there is still enough clean white muslin and white flowing robes abroad to give a tolerable effect to the picture, just such an effect as the painter produces by a dab of body colour or a scratch of the pen-knife on his drawing.

But all this time that we have been displaying our descriptive powers, our friends Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks have been eating their tiffin at Spence's Hotel, a performance upon their part, which, as being the first of the kind, demands a more particular record from us than we have as yet been able to bestow upon it.

When the two griffs entered the hotel (it was not then where it is now, but in Beecher's-building), the first thing they did was to raise a vehement cry of "waiter," which not being productive of any visible effect, they began cursing and swearing -- a demonstration which fortunately for them, was comprehended by Peer Khan, who ventured to make a suggestion, that was very much needed by the griffins.

"Master not say water -- they not know -- they not hear Ingleshe word."

"What a precious set of people they must be," exclaimed Jenks, "not to understand English."

"I dare say they think the same of us," returned Peregrine Pultuney, laughing, "but you must own that it's more the fault of our griffinage than of their ignorance. Come, Peer Khan, what am I to say?"

"Master not say water" replied Peer Khan, "master say pinaka paunee."

"Well then here goes," cried Peregrine Pultuney, "pinaka paunee -- pinaka paunee."

Peregrine Pultuney bawled out these last words at the full stretch of his lungs, under an impression that the words he was uttering were the Bengallee, or Hindustani words for "waiter," nor were they without effect, for in less than a minute a native servant appeared with a large leaden bottle in his hand, and another following him, bearing a couple of tumblers. As Peregrine thought this was an Eastern mode of salutation, and moreover, as he was somewhat thirsty, he drank off a glass of cold water without any comment of any kind, and Julian Jenks followed his example.

Having gone through this Eastern ceremony with much satisfaction to himself, our hero desired Peer Khan to explain, that his inward man stood in need of refreshment, and that he wanted tiffin as quickly as possible, an explanation which was no sooner made than the two servants, who had supplied the water, rather signified than expressed to the young gentlemen to follow them, which Peregrine and Julian accordingly did, and to their great astonishment, they beheld themselves in a long room, where some dozen or fifteen gentlemen were engaged in consuming cold meat, hot potatoes, and bottled beer, with every possible symptom of gratification and delight.

At first Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks drew back, thinking that they were intruding upon a select party of friends, but they were soon informed, through the interpretership of Peer Khan, that the room was a common room, and the table a common table, that single gentlemen were in the habit of tiffing there -- in short, that it was the custom so to do, and highly recommendable on the score of convenience.

"It's a table-d'hote -- is it?" said Peregrine.

"No, master," said Peer Khan, "it a tiffin."

After a few moments' consultation, Peregrine Pultuney and his friend determined, that on the whole it was preferable to dine at the table-d'hote than to dine in a private apartment. Peregrine observed, that they would thereby be enabled to make their observations on Anglo-Indians, and AngloIndian society, whilst Julian Jenks contented himself with remarking, that at all events they wouldn't have to wait, and he felt prodigiously hungry.

This settled the point at once, so the two young gentlemen sat down to make their observations upon men and manners, but as they had first of all to make their observations upon a cold sirloin of beef, a dish of stewed duck, some grilled fowl, and sundry bottles of pale ale, it was some time before the men and manners came upon the tapis; however, we think it right to state, that they did come at last, and that Peregrine Pultuney observed, before he left the tiffin table, that whenever he called pinaka paunee (meaning the waiter), a servant brought him a tumbler of the pure element, saltpetred into tolerable coolness; that there were a great number of pinaka paunees in the room, one at least to every eater -- that over the dinner-table there was a great long wood-and-canvass frame, utterly unlike any thing he had ever seen before, suspended by ropes from the ceiling, which a man outside the door kept pulling backwards and forwards, by means of a rope attached to the frame -- that this strange machine was called a punkah, and was the most useful piece of furniture in the house -- that the gentlemen at table were very vulgar gentlemen, for they took beer with one another as respectable people do wine -- and finally that pinaka paunee meant drinking water, whilst qui hai was Bengallee for a waiter.

Having possessed themselves of these important items of information, the young gentlemen began to deliberate as to their future plans and future prospects, and after a good deal of conversation they determined to spend the remainder of the day where they were, and not to part on the following morning until such time as it should be found expedient to repair to Dum-Dum, the head-quarters of their regiment.

So having procured bedrooms, and made some further observations upon the mosquito curtains, enveloping their bed, the bathing-rooms, the mats, and other things of that sort, which are antiEnglish in their effect, the young gentlemen sent out to hire a buggy to take a drive on the "course," or grand mall of Calcutta, where people drive up and down from six o'clock till dark, seeing, being seen, talking scandal, and criticizing their friends' bonnets.

Our griffins had just made a most elaborate toilet, and the buggy was announced as ready, when down came the rain in torrents, pouring and streaming with such unabating assiduity, that after standing at the window for three quarters of an hour, the young gentlemen discovered that it was the "rainy season," and deferred their drive on the course sine die, Julian Jenks, as a matter of course, declaring that Calcutta was "a confounded hole."

CHAPTER III.

Containing very little that the Indian Header does not know very well already.

When Peregrine Pultuney went up to bed that night (a step, by the way, which he did not take, until he had previously taken rather more than two bottles of claret inwardly, to drink success to his Indian career) he found that a difficulty awaited him somewhat similar to that which, at an earlier period of the day, had opposed his entrance into the palankin, and which was, in fact, nothing more nor less, than an utter ignorance as to the best means of getting into it -- a circumstance that might induce some of our readers to suppose that our hero was partially intoxicated, which would be not only highly injurious to his reputation, but at the same time highly unjust; for a person who has never been made previously cognizant of such matters, may well wonder how to insinuate himself into a bed, which is surrounded on every side by tightlydrawn and tightly-tucked-in gauze curtains, to open which for half a minute, he is credibly informed, will be certain misery, and sleeplessness and irritation to his unfortunate self for the whole of the night.

But here, as though to exemplify the truth of that striking aphorism, which says that "virtue is its own reward," Peer Khan came to the rescue, with a strange-looking article in his hand, somewhat resembling a Bavarian broom out of curl, or a horse-tail at the end of a stick of sealing-wax, and with this article, called in India a chowry (they do have such queer names for things there), he set to work after a fashion indicative of the most praiseworthy assiduity and zeal, whisking and flapping about the bed with the utmost energy for the space of at least five minutes, at the end of which time he lifted up about an inch-and-a-half of the gauze curtain, and having made an aperture thereby sufficiently large to admit an undersized cockroach to wriggle into it, he desired his master to get in as fast as he possibly could.

Peregrine was at first disposed to reason upon the impossibility of doing as he was bid, but upon reflecting that greater difficulties than that had been surmounted ere then by perseverance, he resolved to make an introition, the result of which resolution was that, after an arduous struggle, Peregrine Pultuney found himself stretched on the hardest of hard mattrasses, with a couple of pillows, which felt precisely like so many petrified mealsacks, such, (it is but just to the hotel-keeper to state) being the characteristics of a first-rate Indian bed.

"D -- n it," muttered Peregrine, as he tossed himself about, and at last settled himself flat on his back, as the best mode of avoiding the attrition of his angles against the hard bedding: "one must needs be used to sleep on the London pavements to stomach such tough lying as this, the first night after one's arrival. I might as well sleep with my head upon a door-step -- every bit of it -- that I might," and beguiling the time with these reflections and divers others of a similar nature, Peregrine Pultuney, in less than half an hour, contrived to swear himself fast asleep.

With that rapid promotion, which officers in the Bengal Artillery or the Bengal any thing else, are never favoured with except in their dreams, Peregrine Pultuney had just risen to the rank of Major General with the additional distinction of a K. C. B-ship and the something more than distinction of the head of the Military Secretariat, when he was startled from the pleasant delusion, by a loud voice, which, instead of greeting him with the titles aforesaid, cried out, close to his ear, "Supernumerary Second Lieutenant Peregrine Pultuney -- jump out of bed!"

The speaker, as may readily be imagined, was no other than Supernumerary Second-Lieutenant Julian Jenks, who had made his way into his friend's room in his night shirt and drawers, with the laudable intention of waking him up, whether he liked it or not, about half an hour after daybreak.

"Eh! -- ah!" said Peregrine Pultuney, starting up suddenly -- "what's that -- eh? -- what's the matter? Ah! -- where am I -- ah! I forgot."

"And a lucky fellow, too, to forget," responded Jenks; "I'm blest if I've forgotten any thing all the night -- except by the bye, the way to go to sleep."

"Sleep -- ah! true, -- " said Peregrine, rubbing his eyes, -- "I've been to sleep haven't I?"

"You may take your oath to that," rejoined Jenks, "without danger of being tried for perjury -- lucky fellow! Now I give you my honour, Pultuney, I haven't slept a wink all night. Talk of Indian luxuries -- stuff! bed like an iron-safe -- pillows like warming pans -- that's nothing. I might have stood it -- might have got off to sleep -- but those infernal mosquitoes! -- how could you sleep through them? Enough, that they are, to keep the Sleeping Beauty of Rip Van Wynkle awake."

"Well I, don't know," said Peregrine, -- "I suppose it was that I didn't get any into my bed."

"Didn't get any?" repeated Jenks, "how could you help it? I had thousands -- myriads -- legions -- trumpetting, confound their souls, all the blessed night in my ear, just like a liliputian mail-coach horn. I declare that I've slapped my face, to say nothing of other parts, 'till it's sore, besides making my nose bleed in a fruitless attempt to settle the hash of a settler on my proboscis. Wretches! it's no exaggeration to say that it would afford me infinite delight to put a whole family of them to death on the homoepathic system, inch by inch, grain by grain; there now, look at my face."

Peregrine did look, and the countenance of his friend somewhat resembled the aspect of a wasp's nest in high spirits. Poor Julian had suffered cruelly from this worse than Egyptian plague; but he had the misfortune to possess a face of such unvarying good-nature and jocosity, that it was almost impossible to pity him or to persuade yourself that he could, by any possibility, be any thing else but the happiest creature in the world.

"Well," said Peregrine, "you certainly have suffered; but tell me, how did you manage it. Why didn't you get somebody to tuck in your curtains better."

"Curtains!" ejaculated Julian Jenks, "how do you think it was possible to sleep with curtains? Heat intolerable -- infernal! I was stewing all night as it was. Curtains! I knew I couldn't stand it, so I took them down before I got into bed."

"Heigh ho!" cried Peregrine Pultuney, with a sort of long-drawn whistle; "no wonder then that your fresh English blood was preyed upon by those vile vampires. Why, my good fellow, I'll answer for it, that all the mosquitoes in the house have been regaling themselves at your expense to intoxication. Never try it on that way again, or you will be sucked dry in less than a fortnight."

"A confounded hole!" exclaimed Julian.

"Nay," returned Peregrine, "you can't say that yet; we must all pay a little for being griffins. But here comes Peer Khan with some coffee: that's a comfort, Julian, at all events; but who the devil have we got here?"

The gentleman who accompanied Peer Khan, and whose appearance had elicited this last exclamation, was a nice looking, meek-faced native, not attired like his conductor, in long coats and wide trowsers, but in a short white linen jacket reaching to his waist, and no inexpressibles at all, unless the cloth, which was twisted round his middle and between his legs, reaching in loose folds a little below his knee, be entitled to such a denomination. He was much shorter and more delicately made than Peer Khan, -- his face was far more effeminate, his eyes brighter, his hands and feet smaller, than were those of the sturdy Mahomedan. Peregrine was much struck by his appearance; for being a liberal-minded young gentleman, utterly destitute of national prejudice, he did not think, as many do, that personal beauty is inseparable from a white skin, -- a delusion which it is almost impossible to account for, except on the score of national blindness, as one certainly sees more ugly people in London than in any other town in the world.

The individual, whom we have thus introduced to the favourable consideration of our readers, was a Hindoo, and his name was Gunga Ram. Approaching with a graceful salaam, he presented our hero with something that bore the appearance of a small note, and Peregrine Pultuney naturally expected that the bearer had come from his aunt, or from some other Calcutta resident, with an invitation, requesting the honour of his company for a few months; but, upon inspecting it, he discovered that it was nothing more than what in England is called a ", written character."

"Oh! that's it?" ejaculated Peregrine.

"Yes, master," returned Peer Khan, who, of course, undertook to be spokesman. "This man, he bring good chit, I know very well -- he good man. He be master sirdar."

"My what?" exclaimed Peregrine.

"Master Sirdar -- he bearer. Hindoo man -- very good cast. He dress master -- help make clean -- take care master thing -- keep key."

"Why, I can do all that myself," returned Peregrine Pultuney.

"No, master, not this country," said Peer Khan, putting his palms together, as natives always do, in respectful remonstrance; "not custom in this country, master. Inglis custom do plenty work, -- this country custom master do nothing -- Kala-logue do master's business."

"And who the deuce are Kala-logue?" asked Julian Jenks, who had been listening attentively to this dialogue.

"Native this country," returned Peer Khan, "master call nigger, I think."

At this, Peregrine laughed very much, and observed, that Peer Khan "had him there," though it is doubtful whether the Mahomedan really intended, as Peregrine thought he did, to put Julian in mind of his first interview with the native. But be that as it may, they both laughed, and after that, Gunga Ram was duly installed in his office of Sirdar (or chief) bearer; and then Julian Jenks asked Peer Khan to get him a bearer too, which Peer Khan promised that he would, and feeling himself of some importance at this juncture, he began incontinently to volunteer a vast deal of information, and acquaint the two young gentlemen with a variety of things, which it was incumbent on them to have and to do.

"Now, master," began the faithful domestic, who had installed himself into the office of majordomo some time before in his own mind -- "now, master, I get you sirdar, he very good man indeed -- that Gunga Ram -- master give key -- he dress master -- take care cloth."

"You've told me all that before," interrupted Peregrine Pultuney, "pray tell me something else now."

"Yes, master -- I tell plenty thing -- master got sirdar."

"Confound the sirdar, let me hear no more about him."

"Very good; master get mate bearer -- very much want mate bearer for master."

"Ah!" said Peregrine, who had taken it into his head that a mate bearer was a bearer's wife or sort of housemaid, "very good indeed -- of course I must have that to clean my furniture and sweep my house."

"No, no, master," rejoined Peer Khan eagerly, "not do that -- he not sweep house, sir, -- that mehter work -- low cast -- pariah -- he help master dress."

"What," cried Peregrine, who thought that Peer Khan was only making a few mistakes in his genders, -- "what! must I have a valet and lady's-maid too?" an idea, which set Julian Jenks off into a most ungovernable fit of laughter, which threatened to terminate in suffocation, or, at all events, in strong convulsions.

Of this the poor Mahomedan did not know very well what to make, so he contented himself with observing, "No, master -- not get lady maid how -- master get mehm first, then master get ayah;" and there was something in the prospect that unfolded itself to the Bengallee, that was productive of considerable inward satisfaction, for he smiled as he uttered these last words, and looked uncommonly pleased.

It was evident that they were playing at crosspurposes, and did not clearly understand one another, so Peregrine Pultuney, who, to do him justice, laid it all to the account of his ignorance, askedPeer Khan, what a mate-bearer really was, and having ascertained that he was a ditto of the sirdar, wondered very much what any human being could require with two people to dress him.

"It custom in this country," said Peer Khan, an argument which was always a knock-down one; for if the Mussulman had sworn that it was the custom of the country for gentlemen to eat one another's heads, Peregrine could not have gainsaid it by any arguments based upon any thing more solid than surmise.

"Custom, is it?" cried Peregrine; "well, then, I suppose I must submit. It's no laughing matter though, is it, Jenks, to be pulled about like a great baby by a couple of black nurses, as though one couldn't put on one's own stockings, and take the towel off the horse for oneself. Well, then, go on, my good fellow, what other custom in your country?"

"Master," continued Peer Khan, delighted to be encouraged in his garrulity; "master, I tell now have sirdar, mate-bearer dress -- mehter he make sweep -- 'nother man, he bring water -- he bheesty"

"Beasty! -- eh?" asked Peregrine Pultuney, -- "that's a queer name for a man."

"Yes, master -- bheesty, he bring water -- dhobi he wash'man -- clean cloth -- master get horse, then have syse -- gasscut. One horse, have two men -- two horse, then have three men. Master go dine at mess?"

"I suppose so," said Peregrine Pultuney.

"Then not want bawarchee -- cook -- very fine mess Dum-dum."

"So they say," returned Peregrine; "but tell me now, Peer Khan, what you call your worshipful self?"

"Yes, master, I call khansaman -- khitmudgar. I wait table -- bring master khana -- dinner -- master have coffee gun-fire, I make ready bring -- then breakfus. I go bazaar -- get master rice -- fish -- all thing he want -- then stand behind master chair dinner."

"Or, in other words, you're the butler," suggested Peregrine.

"Yes, master -- they say butler, Madaras country -- Inglis country say butler too -- this country say khansaman."

"Very good, Mr. Khansaman," said Peregrine, "so take away these dirty cups, and leave me, as I suppose you must, to the tender mercies of Gunga Ram, valet."

Peer Khan obeyed with the utmost promptitude, but as Peregrine's new friend did not happen to know, or, at all events, would not confess to the knowledge of, a single word of the English language, and as Peregrine's acquaintance with Hindustani was, to say the best of it, very limited, our hero did not get on at first so well with his new attendant as he could have wished. But he felt resigned, and determined to submit to the customs of the country, be they what they might, -- a determination in which Julian Jenks did not feel the least disposed to coincide, for he anathematized the country in his usual strain, and declared his regret that his parents had not apprenticed him to chimney-sweeping, or some other genteel profession at home, instead of sending him out to be bitten to death by mosquitoes, and stewed alive in such a "confounded hole" -- such a veritable Pandoemonium, as India.

But as Julian Jenks uttered all this with a broad grin on his face, Peregrine Pultuney, instead of commiserating his friend, replied by a hearty laugh, which put his limbs into such a state of agitation, that Gunga Ram, who was silently performing his duties, was obliged to desist from his endeavours to draw on his master's socks.

And a word now, on this subject. Some very erudite philosopher has observed, that "we are all creatures of habit," and an old aunt of our own, who has no small pretensions to wisdom, if not to absolute philosophy, is so convinced of the fact, that she never loses an opportunity of inculcating the important truth, whether it be à propos to any thing or not. Our old aunt is not far wrong, for we are all creatures of habit, and if any one need a striking illustration of this most veracious aphorism, one may be found in the history of Peregrine Pultuney, who was positively certain for three whole days, that he should never be able to reconcile himself to having his stockings drawn on for him by any body, and at the expiration of those three days, wondered exceedingly how he had ever been able to do it for himself.

But as we wish our narrative to progress a little faster, we must imagine Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks dressed and seated at the breakfast-table, with pretty nearly the same collection of white-jacketed gentlemen as they had tiffed with on the preceding day. Nothing very particular happened at this meal, except that the two young gentlemen, in prosecution of their observations on men and manners, paid great attention to the universally adopted mode of making up an Indian breakfast mess -- a preparation consisting of a little butter, two or three green chillis, a pyramid of boiled rice, a ditto egg, and a pound of fried fish, with salt and cayenne at discretion, all mashed lip on a hot-water plate and baled down the throat with a spoon -- no contemptible provender, be it observed, for a gentleman in good health, who has risen early; and every body, but the most hopelessly indolent, is an early riser in India.

When Mr. Pultuney and Mr. Jenks had breakfasted, they sent to the livery-stables for a buggy, and whilst they were awaiting its arrival, they beguiled the time by reading the newspapers. There they saw a "list of passengers by the Hastings" in which Peregrine could scarcely recognise the name of a single one of his fellow-voyagers, so abominably were they all spelt; and there they read an announcement which made them roar with laughter -- "Cornet Drawlincourt, left at the Cape."

"I hope he enjoys his sojourn at the colony," observed Julian Jenks, in a tone of voice that was not intended to express any hopes of the kind.

"Poor fellow -- poor fellow!" said Peregrine, "I pity him, I do indeed; he has paid dearly for his absurdity."

"Sarved him right, as the Irish juryman said," returned Julian Jenks, laughing, "but here's a buggy -- perhaps it's for us -- so where shall we go first?"

"The town-major's, of course," said Peregrine, "business first, pleasure afterwards, you know;" and having uttered this very sage maxim with the air of a Socrates or a Solon, he snatched up his hat, and the two friends were soon whirling across the plain towards the fort.

Having inquired from a European sentry at one of the gates, the way to the town-major's, the two young soldiers got out at the office, made their way up stairs, sent in their cards, declared their business, entered their names and calling in a book, and delivered over to the proper authority two ugly pieces of parchment, for which they had each of them been compelled to disburse a couple of guineas at the India House. These pieces of parchment are called "orders for embarkation," and are doubtless very valuable documents to the individuals who get the money for the same, though we have never yet heard of any purchaser who was able to discover the use of them.

Having settled this part of the business without the occurrence of any incident worth speaking of, Peregrine Pultuney determined -- to use his own words -- that he would "go and beat up his old aunt," whose domicile he had previously ascertained to be somewhere in the neighbourhood of Chowringhee. With this intent, he applied the whip to the flanks of the horse, and was dashing under one of those archways, which afford the only ingress and egress from the fort that we know of, when a sentry came down to the charge-bayonet, and effectually prevented the further progress of the two young gentlemen in the buggy.

"Hallo! you, sir," shouted Peregrine; "d -- n you -- what do you mean? Shoulder arms -- right about face. Confound it all! I'm an officer."

"Can't help that," replied the sentry; "you .mustn't pass out here."

"Why not? I insist upon passing. D -- n it, sir, I came in here,"

"And that's, sir, the very reason you may not pass out here," said the sentry, advancing his bayonet. "You must go through another gate; it's the garrison order, and I can't help it."

"Curse the garrison order!" rejoined Peregrine, backing his horse somewhat discomfited, "a pretty place this is to be sure, where a man may not go out at the same gate that he came in by, without running the risk of being stuck by a bayonet."

"A confounded hole," returned Julian Jenks; "I always thought I should find it so."

Comforting themselves with these and sundry other expressions of discontent and annoyance, the two young gentlemen, after driving round a square or two, made their way out of another gate, which happened to take them a nearer way to Chowringhee by three-quarters of a mile, than the gate at which they were repulsed; but as they were red hot griffins, fresh out of the ship, it is not to be expected that they should have been much better acquainted than they were with the geography of Calcutta and Fort William. And as to the gates, a much wiser person than Peregrine Pultuney or Julian Jenks may be twenty years at the Presidency and make a mistake about them in the twenty-first, without forfeiting his claims to sagacity or being suspected of affectation in the least.

So Chowringhee was reached, for it would be a difficult thing to miss one's way to Chowringhee, but here another obstacle presented itself, almost as bad as the sentry's bayonet, and that obstacle was none other than the immense number and variety of the houses in the said Chowringhee. How was he ever to find his respectable aunt, Mrs. Poggleton, in such a Babylon as this? There were plenty of people to ask, but as he did not exactly know how to ask them, and they did not much look as though they knew, he thought that they would not help him much, and the syces did not know, or pretended not to know, or something; for when Peregrine said "Poggleton hai," in his own very choice Hindustani, the man put his palms together deprecatingly, and said "nuheen sahib -- poggle nuheen -- khrab bath," which Peregrine took for an assertion that he knew nothing about the matter, and was very sorry for his ignorance; so not knowing what to do, the young gentlemen drove on a little farther and then stopped again, and then looked about them, and at last Peregrine took courage, and upon the old understanding that "nothing is to be lost by asking," he hailed a very respectable looking stout old Baboo, and asked him in unquestionable English, if he knew which was Mr. Poggleton's.

The Baboo did not know, but he asked a chuprassey, who said he did know, and immediately volunteered to point out to Peregrine the place where the gentleman lived. It was only five houses in advance, which was very fortunate indeed, for had the man's directions been more complicated, the chances are that the griffins would have lost their way again without the least chance of recovering it.

But only five doors off -- how fortunate. They drew up -- no bell, no knocker, and gates shut. But Peregrino had learnt to call "qui-hai," so call he did, right manfully.

The durwan came -- "Sahib at home?" said Peregrine -- "what the deuce do they call missus?"

"Durwazah bund, khoodawut," said the durwan.

"Ah! very good -- yes, exactly" -- returned Peregrine -- "bohoot achaa -- I understand," and just as he said this, the gates were shut in his horse'a face, and, like Lord Ullin in the song, he was "left lamenting" outside.

"Well," said Peregrine, "these people have certainly most agreeable manners -- first one man threatens to stick me, and then another slams the door in my face. Hallo, sir, Poggleton sahib hai -- I've got it there, haven't I, Julian? -- open -- what's that in Hindustani?"

"I don't know what it is in Hindustani," returned Julian, "but I know what it is in English," and saying this, he dismounted from his buggy, and began smiting the gate most vigorously with the butt-end of the whip.

The durwan opened the door again -- "Poggleton sahib -- hem -- hem -- what the deuce is a house? -- ah, ghur -- I remember that in the selections, Poggleton sahib ghur?"

"Neh sahib," returned the durwan -- "E-Smit sahib," and again the gate was shut in the face of the inquirer.

"Smith sahib -- very much like Poggleton certainly," observed Julian, as he reascended the buggy -- "very much indeed like Poggleton."

So the young gentlemen were adrift again, but fortunately they saw another Baboo, who understood English pretty well, and he did know Mr. Poggleton's "quite well -- he do business with him -- three four doors before only -- he show master the house;" and indeed he was as good as his word, for this time the durwan acknowledged to the Poggleton sahib, and Peregrine Pultuney was admitted.

CHAPTER IV.

In which Peregrine Pultuney finds himself in the wrong Box.

It was a fine house in one of the best Chowringhee roads (but not in the Chowringhee road) that Peregrine Pultuney now found himself entering. Like all Calcutta houses in the rains, it had a somewhat desolate aspect of uninhabited grandeur; for the walls and the pillars were black and weather-stained, large patches of green damp were visible about the base, and down the sides of the house you might trace the course of the water, that had been, almost incessantly for the last two months, streaming down from the conduits on the roof. The house, too, was shut up; between the pillars of the spacious verandah, (a distinguishing mark, by the way, of a good Indian residence,) large green blinds, made of thin pieces of split and painted bamboo, were let down to exclude the glare. A number of crows were cawing and pecking about the roof, and every now and then amusing themselves by certain small aerial excursions, whilst two or three enormous birds, like overgrown herons, with their long thin legs and stupendous beaks and pouches, were drowsing upon the topmost ballustrades, only moving, every now and then, in a sort of sleepy attempt to inflict condign punishment upon an adventurous crow, who was pert enough to come within their reach.

It was a fine day in August, if an Indian August day can ever be called fine. It was a fine day -- we use the word as it is used with reference to the Gorgons of social life, who go by the name of "fine women." It was a fine day -- because it did not rain, and there was plenty of blue sky and an intolerably fierce sun, but it was nevertheless one of those days, which require the physical endurance of a washerwoman to carry one well through them; for the atmosphere was steamy to a degree -- no other word .can do it justice. The pleasant vapour that is exhaled from a wet blanket, hung before a kitchen fire to dry, may give the reader some faint idea of the steaminess, that a scorching August sun draws out of a saturated Bengal plain; but nothing else comes any where near to it. It is worse than the dry heat; for it steams into you; it stews you down instead of roasting you, and completely takes all the strength and the succour out of you like a vapour-bath. Nothing flourishes at this season, but the vegetation and the adjutants, and they are unnatural enough to live in a state of excitement, from the beginning of "the rains" to the end of them. Human life degenerates into one great complaint, and the world is privileged to swear at the weather. There, is some comfort, at all events, in that.

But we must not forget Peregrine Pultuney, who has entered the house in Chowringhee, found a wandering bearer on the staircase, sent up his card to the mehm-sahib, and arrived safe on the upper landing-place. Here he remarked two or three men, in the same costume as his friend Peer Khan, whom from this circumstance he knew to be Mussulmans, sitting on the floor, with a number of gowns, or frocks, or chemises, or something, strewn out on the mat before them; and at these gowns, or frocks, or chemises, or something, they were working with considerable assiduity, scarcely ever raising their eyes from their needle, or vouchsafing a word to one another. These men were the dhurzies or tailors -- the most useful race of people in the world, and as essential to every Indian household, as a cook, a punkah, or a bathing-tub.

Passing these worthies, and ushered by a bearer, Peregrine entered a large room, which he immediately guessed to be Mrs. Poggleton's drawing-room, for it was fitted up in a very ambitious manner, and was not unlike an upholsterer's shop, when it has been got all ready for show. It was a long and somewhat badly proportioned apartment, very lofty, as all Indian rooms are, and very unfinished in appearance. The walls were white, but relieved every here and there by doors, prints, and wall-shades. Of the former article Peregrine Pultuney counted no less than six in the room; they were all open, so as to give free circulation to the little air that might chance to struggle into the house, but, as in a dwelling where there are no passages between the rooms this open system must have its inconveniences, a kind of half-door made of toon-wood and crimson silk, which neither reached nearly to the top nor the bottom of the aperture, had been contrived so as to answer tolerably well for all purposes of concealment; though Peregrine Pultuney did think that he saw something like the feet of a bedstead beneath one of them. The prints were principally large mezzotinto ones, from the paintings of Cooper, Martin, and Danby, and with the exception of one from Lawrence's picture of that angel-boy, young Lambton, Peregrine thought that they were all monstrosities, and it is very probable that he was right. Besides the doors and the pictures, which relieved the dead white expanse of the walls, our hero observed every here and there what to him were branch-candlesticks, braeketted on to the walls, with great large glasses, in shape like large inverted sugar-loaves, to keep the candles, when they were lit, from blowing out; these things which Peregrine afterwards found were called wall-shades, being set off by a number of glass "drops," and a great deal of gold leaf about the brackets, had a somewhat theatrical effect, and Peregrine thought, wisely enough, that if they were all of them, for he counted about thirty sugar-loaf glasses, set alight at the same time, the quantum of caloric they would produce, on a moderate calculation, would be equal to that of an ordinary-sized kitchen fire on the day that a young marquis comes of age.

Having completed his survey of the walls, our hero lifted his eyes towards the ceiling, and there he saw the same unfinished appearance, for the beams of the room were visible; large square bars of wood, painted pea-green, running across the roof, and smaller dittos running lengthways, with little rectangular patches of whitewash between them, made up the ceiling of this elaborate show-room; but from these beams, which if not ornamental, were certainly useful, hung three large chandeliers, which doubtless were very handsome, but their beauty was carefully concealed from the vulgar eye by the great red stuff bags, which enveloped them, and made them look like gigantic fly-traps. Besides these, were suspended from the beams two large punkahs, most elaborately moulded and gilt, with deep fringes attached to the bottom, and semi-circular spaces cut at the top of them, to give a clear berth to the above described chandeliers, which would otherwise have been smashed to atoms at the first swing of these formidable ventilators.

At either end of the long room, Peregrine saw that there was a magnificent row of windows, or rather of high glass doors, at the outside of which were heavy green-painted "Venetians," which effectually excluded the glare, so dreaded by the inhabitants of Calcutta, and so disregarded by those of Madras. One of these windows, or rather rows of windows, was a bay; but there was nothing like a curtain about it, the absence of which, together with the absence of carpets, for there was nothing but a large finely-textured mat on the floor, struck forcibly the attention of the griffin, who thought that there was a grand inconsistency between the unfinished aspect of the apartment itself and the splendour and number of the articles of furniture, which so ambitiously blocked up the room.

Near the bay-window was a large round table, which consisted of a beautiful white marble slab upon a massive mahogany pedestal. In the centre of this table was a China flower-vase, and round it were scattered, in elegant confusion, a Book of Beauty, and a Book of Royalty, and a Book of Loveliness. Near this table was a mahogany sofa, covered with the finest bright yellow damask silk (very hideous indeed to look at, but very excellent for "lighting up"); and then came another marbletable, but not a round one, it being of a rectangular shape, with a twist-about leg at either end of it, and on this was a China-inkstand (to look literary), an alabaster cupid or so, and a bronze stag. Next to this, proceeding along the centre of the room, was an uncommonly fine large gamboge ottoman, to match the couches, with a back in the centre of it, cushions, &c., for people to sit dos-à-dos, and look sentimental, whilst some fair cantatrice was singing and playing at the grand mahogany Broadwood, which is the next article of upholstery that claims the attention of the reader. After this came another round table, but not of marble, two more sofas of the gamboge damask, and then another window, looking into the "compound," which is the name given to a garden in India, because whoever has one, compounds for an extra share of malaria in the rains, and the pleasure of paying two or three gardeners a monthly stipend for selling your flowers to your neighbours.

Having walked up and down the centre of the room, and made the observations we have recorded above, Peregrine Pultuney began to take a survey of the upholstery running along the sides of the apartment; and he saw that between every two doors there was a space, which seemed precisely made for a long marble-slab ornament table, on which were placed a variety of China vases, China figures, artificial flowers on alabaster pedestals beneath sugar-loaf glasses, little bronze lamps, and other very ingenious specimens of inutility. Besides these tables, of which there were four in the room, Peregrine observed a couple of very handsome carved mahogany book-cases, with a variety of smart, gold-lettered books in them, to keep up the credit of the establishment -- an inlaid ebony and satin-wood chess-table, a vast number of footstools of all sorts and sizes, and an arm-chair in which it would be utterly impossible to sit for five minutes without falling asleep.

Having taken this mental inventory of Mrs. Poggleton's household furniture, Peregrine Pultuney seated himself on a sofa, and thinking to beguile the time that might happen to intervene before his respectable aunt made her appearance, he took from off the mahogany table a magazine-looking book, which upon inspection he discovered to be a number of the Calcutta Christian Observer -- a discovery which would have given him a very favourable impression of the religious character of the lady of the house, if, most unfortunately, the volume, though nearly a month old, did not bear most unequivocal symptoms of having been unread, which symptoms were none other than the staggering fact, that the leaves of the book were uncut.

"Heigh-ho!" exclaimed Peregrine Pultuney, with a smile on his face, "that's how old Radix used to find out that I had not learnt my Greek play at school, when I boggled at an uncut leaf in the middle of it;" and it is probable that his recollections might have taken a more lengthened scholastic turn, if an elderly lady, whom he immediately guessed to be his aunt, had not entered the upholstery warehouse through one of the silk doors, preceded by a little capering Blenheim.

The lady, who now advanced towards Peregrine, was very stout and very good-looking. She was apparently a little above forty, and was most carefully and unexceptionably dressed. Nothing could have been in better taste than her cap and her spaniel; it was difficult to say which were the prettier, the ribbons of the one, or the ears of the other. Perhaps the lady rouged a little -- a very little, but that was all fair; for surely the odds are too much against one, if one is expected, in a place like India, to have one's own natural colour, where one is out of one's own natural climate.

The little spaniel barked slightly, and the lady of the house bowed to match. Peregrine had risen from his scat, and was about to rush forward to embrace his aunt, when he was checked by the coldness of her demeanour. Her lips moved slightly, and she motioned Peregrine to be seated.

Having taken a chair at a respectable distance from our hero, the lady looked down at Peregrine's card, which she still held in her hand, and said, in a low, cold voice, "Have you been long arrived, Mr. Pultuney?"

"I arrived yesterday," returned Peregrine, still standing, for he was so taken aback by his aunt's want of cordiality, that he was arrested in the place where he stood, like a human creature turned into marble, as we read of them in the Classical Dictionary.

"Pray be seated," said the lady of the house.

Peregrine resumed his seat accordingly, and muttered to himself -- "A very cordial welcome, truly -- Indian hospitality, forsooth!"

"I beg your pardon," said the lady of the house, "I did not hear what you said?"

"It is very hot," remarked Peregrine.

"Yes," said the lady, "very -- What do you think of India?"

"Why, really, I can hardly judge yet," drawled Peregrine, in an affected tone of voice, which no one knew better than himself how to assume. "Really I don't know. In fact, my opportunities of forming an opinion have not been very extensive; but I should say, that it was very cold." Peregrine had collected himself sufficiently to be very disgusted, and he was acting his part accordingly.

The lady stared at him. "Cold, sir! I don't understand you, -- I understood you to say it was hot."

"Yes, ma'am -- I did say so," continued Peregrine, still slowly dragging out his words -- "hot, speaking physically, ma'am, with reference to the external caloric with which the atmosphere is laden; but cold, ma'am, icy cold, as to the social state -- very cold indeed, 'pon honour."

The lady stared more than ever; she seemed to think that her visitor was either a great fop, or a great fool, or both; but as strict civility "under any circumstances," was a part of her creed, she did not take any notice of our hero's strange demeanour, but asked him in the same languishing voice as she had first addressed him in, "Did you make a good passage, Mr. Pultuney?"

"Tolerable, ma'am, thank you," replied Peregrine.

"And may I ask what ship?" said the lady.

"Curse her affectation," thought Peregrine, "just as though she did not know very well, since she wrote me a letter to the Hastings."

The two last words of this were uttered aloud, and appeared to produce a great effect upon the lady, who opened her eyes wider than ever, and seemed suddenly to understand the relative situations of herself and her visiter, much better than she had done of first. "The Hastings. Oh! did you?" she said; "that's it, sir -- you came in the Hastings?"

"Yes, ma'am, I did," drawled Peregrine.

"And my nieces came with you?" said the lady, in a significant tone of voice, but still not diverging from the ladylike.

"Nieces!" exclaimed Peregrine, whose astonishment was so great that he could not act his part any longer -- "I have not brought my sisters with me -- I don't understand you, indeed."

"Sisters!" almost screamed the lady -- "what, in the name of goodness, do you mean?"

"Why," said Peregrine, "I really beg your pardon; but I am afraid there has been some mistake. Are you not -- I thought you were -- my Aunt!"

"Aunt!" ejaculated the lady, "who on earth do you take me for? I do not remember ever having had the pleasure of seeing you before, Mr. Pultuney."

"Most likely not," said Peregrine; "but still you may be my aunt; though I sadly fear there has been some mistake here. Are you -- are you -- I beg your pardon -- but are you not -- Mrs. Poggleton?"

"Mrs. Poggleton! -- goodness gracious! I Mrs. Poggleton! That is a mistake -- goodness gracious! I Mrs. Poggleton!"

"I regret, exceedingly," said Peregrine, "that I should have made such a mistake; but you must lay it to the account of my griffinage -- Here comes somebody though, who will speak to my character, and answer for my not being a swindler -- Miss Lucretia Gowanspec, how do you do?"

The young lady, who now entered the room, was in fact Miss Lucretia Gowanspec, and she was more surprised to see Peregrine Pultuney, than Peregrine Pultuney was to see her; for it had just begun to dawn upon the faculties of our hero, that the "nieces" to whom the lady of the house had been alluding, were no others than the Miss Gowanspecs. Still Peregrine was in a state of mystification. They had told him at the door that this was Poggleton sahib's, -- the Baboo in the street had told him so too; but the lady had positively denied that she was Mrs. Poggleton, and had certainly not shown the cordiality of a relative in welcoming her nephew to India. There was a terrible mistake somewhere, and Miss Lucretia must clear it up.

The young lady, who was in reality delighted to see Peregrine, held out her hand and blushed deeply as she did it. This was enough for the old lady, who instantly resolved that our hero should never again enter the house; for she began to suspect that he was an impudent impostor after all, who had been acting a part from the beginning, only to accomplish an interview with her niece.

"Miss Lucretia Gowanspec," said Peregrine, smiling, "I must get you to speak to my character. I stand here suspected -- I should not wonder in the least -- of having entered this house under false pretences. Will you introduce me to your aunt by name?"

"Oh! certainly," said the young lady, still blushing very prettily. "Aunt, let me introduce you to Mr. Pultuney. Mr. Pultuney, my aunt."

"By name, if you please," suggested Peregrine.

"Lah! I forgot," simpered Miss Lucretia, "how stupid! Mr. Pultuney, my aunt -- Mrs. Parkinson."

"Parkinson!" exclaimed Peregrine, "ah! there it is -- I see the mistake now; those con -- I mean those stupid Bengallees, deceived by the similarity of the name of the person I was inquiring after, have directed me to the wrong house. I really am very sorry, Mrs. Parkinson, that I have disturbed you -- you must have thought it very impertinent in a stranger like me to have called upon you without an introduction. You see, I hope, that my griffinism alone has been in fault, but if you will pardon it, I am sure that I will most readily, as it has afforded me the pleasure of renewing my acquaintance with Miss Lucretia Gowanspec and her sister."

There was something so frank and so gentleman-like in the manner in which Peregrine Pultuney tendered this explanation, that Mrs. Parkinson was beginning to feel somewhat more kindly disposed towards him, and was just about to inform him that he had not committed such a solecism in good breeding as he supposed -- it being the custom in India for strangers to be the first to call upon residents^ when this unlucky allusion to his intimacy with Miss Lucretia, effectually ruined him in the opinion of Mrs. Parkinson.

"That's pretty well for a cadet -- an impertinent cadet," -- thought the lady, when Peregrine had done, -- "'to renew his acquaintance,' indeed, with my niece -- I think I see him! Don't I!"

But as Peregrine Pultuney was quite ignorant of the enormity he had committed, he went on chatting and talking in the pleasantest manner in the world, laughing at the mistake he had made, and making a fine joke of the supposed coolness of his respectable aunt, to all of which Miss Lucretia Gowanspec listened with the most profound and gratified attention, utterly heedless of the frowns which Mrs. Parkinson was telegraphing across the table, or the evident mortification of the lady, who tried ineffectually enough to conceal her chagrin by caressing her dog and sleeking down his long silken ears.

But morning visits, like all other earthly things, must come to an end at last, and so Peregrine, having enjoyed half an hour of very pleasant and exhilarating conversation, rose up to take his leave, and suddenly remembered that though he might take his leave, it was not so easy as it seemed, to take his departure, as Julian Jenks having deposited him, as was thought, at his aunt's, had driven off in the buggy to do his own business, without calculating in the least on such a contingency as that which now placed our hero in a dilemma.

But Peregrine's lucky star was in the ascendant. For just as he was about to throw himself upon the mercy of Mrs. Parkinson, and to explain to her his unfortunate situation, a card was put, by a bearer, into the lady's hand, and she had no sooner glanced at the address on it, than she pushed it towards Peregrine, as he thought with a somewhat contemptuous air, and exclaimed "here, Mr. Pultuney, is your aunt."

Peregrine looked at the card, read "Mrs. Poggleton" upon it, and instantly ran down stairs to help his aunt out of the carriage, and introduce himself to her on the staircase.

CHAPTER V.

Which follows the Footsteps of Julian Jenks, and is descriptive of Life in Barracks.

Leaving our friend Peregrine Pultuney to the tender mercies of his respectable aunt, we shall follow the footsteps, or rather the carriage-wheels, of Julian Jenks, who, having deposited his companion at the supposed Mrs. Poggleton's, drove off to do his own bidding, whatever that might happen to be.

But the young gentleman, having a great number of things to do, like many wiser people in his situation, was puzzled what to do first. Should he go and get his hair cut? -- perhaps, that would wait -- or to Messrs. Rank and Co.'s, to get measured for a suit of regimentals? -- or should he deliver a few of his letters of introduction? -- or go home and write to his mother? -- or leave his card at Government-house? -- or, lastly, should he go to his agents, deliver his letter of credit, draw a few hundred rupees and replenish his purse, which had been pretty well emptied by the purchase of costly inutilities at the Cape.

"By far the most sensible thing that I could do;" soliloquized Julian Jenks -- "no letter like a letter of credit to help one on in the world;" and there was something so remarkably invigorating in the thought, that it threw no little increase of energy into the stimuli he was administering to his horse, and had the effect of depositing him very safely at "Spence's," in little more than five minutes afterwards.

As the motive for his going there at all does not happen to be so very obvious, we think it right to state, that Julian Jenks went to "Spence's," because he did not know his way to his agent's, and he thought it just as well to inquire beforehand the way to the office of Cutandrun and Co., a reflection on his part indicative of very great wisdom, for if every body inquired the way to do a thing before attempting it, there would not be so many failures in the world.

With this laudable intention in his mind, Julian Jenks sauntered into the coffee-room, for the purpose of consulting a chance acquaintance, whom he had picked up that morning at the breakfast-table, and from the tenour of whose conversation, our friend decided to be a remarkably knowing fellow, especially in horse-racing, pig-sticking, and all commercial affairs. He was, in fact, an indigo planter, or an assistant to an indigo planter, or something of that sort, and had just come up from a place where there were no ladies, no church, no roads, little law, and plenty of hospitality.

There was something about the gentleman that Julian liked, and he was glad, therefore, when he saw him sitting at one end of the long table, with his legs thrown up over the comer of it, in a most comfortable attitude, and an auction-catalogue in his hand. He was just the sort of person, in Jenks' estimation, to aftbrd all the necessary information about Messrs. Cutandrun and Co., so forthwith the griffin attacked him.

"I beg your pardon for interrupting you, sir," said Julian -- 

"No trouble at all," said Mr. O'Neill, for such was the gentleman's name -- "no trouble at all whatever."

"You're very good," said Julian; "but the fact is, you see, that I'm a stranger here, and -- "

"I do see that," said the Mofussilite, smiling, "by your being so uncommon polite. Fresh Europe civility, I take it."

"The same," returned Julian Jenks, with a slight laugh; "but that will wear off in time as the school-boy said of his wart."

"Very true," observed Mr. O'Neill.

"And civility costs nothing," continued Julian -- "besides I wanted the benefit of your experience, and was naturally anxious to conciliate you -- not, however, that I have any thing very important to ask you, as I merely wish to know in what street Messrs. Cutandrun and Co., the agents, are residing."

"In Queer-street" replied Mr. O'Neill.

"Queer-street," said Julian, "that's an odd name; but ah! I see, you are joking."

"I wish I were," returned Mr. O'Neill.

"You don't mean, do you," stammered Julian, "that Messrs. Cutandrun and Co., have -- have -- hare -- have -- "

"Failed?" suggested Mr. O'Neill.

"Yes; failed" reiterated Julian.

"I do, indeed," returned Mr. O'Neill, -- "dividend declared three cowries and a half in the rupee -- as clean a smash as ever was, sir. Not at all singular in that respect, -- great mercantile distress just now -- great house of Pilgrim and Co., gone some time, sir, for two or three crores at the least. Messrs. Macinquash clean gone too -- Lackinhander and Co., insolvent -- all alike, sir -- all alike -- not a house standing in Calcutta."

"Very pleasant intelligence that," observed Julian Jenks, "to a man with no friend, but his letter of credit, within a compass of ten thousand miles -- very pleasant indeed, sir, very."

Considering all things, it may be a matter of doubt whether Julian Jenks did not mean these last words to express his sentiments in an ironica manner; but as his countenance was just as bright and joy-speaking as if he had won a prize in the lottery, it would have been difficult for a stranger to decide whether the sentiments thus delivered were genuine sentiments of pleasure, or the irony of bitter disappointment. The real truth is, that they were neither one thing nor the other, for although Julian Jenks was not quite so accomplished a philosopher as to take any particular pleasure in the misfortune that had just befallen him, he had still enough of the stoic in his composition to treat it almost as a matter of indifference. Certain it is, that the announcement of Messrs. Cutandrun's failure had no effect in damping his spirits, for after delivering it as his candid opinion, that Calcutta was a confounded hole, and having wished Mr. O'Neill good morning, he jumped into his buggy, with a smile and a whistle, and drove off again to the fort.

His object in going there, was to see an old Addiscombe friend, who had arrived in India a few weeks before him, and was resident in the cadet barracks. This young gentleman's name was Phillimore; he was an idle, thoughtless, but well-principled youth, and had passed out of Addiscombe in the infantry. Julian Jenks had received a letter from him at Kedgeree, containing a pressing invitation to "chum" with him in the barracks, before he proceeded to join his regiment -- an invitation which he now began to think seriously of accepting, as it occurred to him, naturally enough, that the failure of Messrs. Cutandrun and Co., his agents, might possibly mar his facilities of paying a heavy hotel-bill, "it will be all the same a hundred years hence," soliloquized Julian Jenks, "and what's the odds."

Comforting himself with these sage reflections and others of a similar nature, Julian Jenks made his way, by a circuitous route, which took him at least twice round the fort, and three times past the place he was seeking for, to the row of white-washed and green-windowed inconveniences, which are called in garrison topography the South Barracks, and which furnish an incommodious asylum to cadets, mosquitoes, young assistant-surgeons, houseless subalterns away from their regiments, lizards, garrison apothecaries and dirt.

Alighting from his buggy at one extremity of these buildings, Julian Jenks passed into the public entrance and up the public staircase, which was very broad, very dusty, and somewhat dilapidated as to the plaster at the edge of each stair; and in less than a minute he found himself at the end of a dim passage, somewhat more than a hundred yards in length, with a stone or plaster floor, a somewhat lofty roof with a few debauched-looking lanterns pendent therefrom, and two long rows of doors, with arched apertures over them, running along either side of the gallery.

Julian Jenks advanced a little way along the passage, and then stood still to contemplate the living scene that presented itself. Outside almost every door were congregated some two or three, or four or five natives, of a variety of castes and descriptions. Palankin-bearers, squatting on their haunches, or lying at full length on the hard floor, waiting for their employers in the interior, or perhaps to be paid for their work. Sirdar-bearers, not always of the most respectable aspect, stretched out fast asleep on a little mat, or native carpet, with their turbans lying by their sides. Coolies, with their empty baskets, clamouring for pice, or with full ones depositing beer and wine for the consumption of the young gentlemen in the quarters. Box-wallahs, with their great green tin-boxes, seeking admittance, whereever they could, with their "plenty fine thing got, master." Mussauljees, or he-scullions, cleaning plates and dishes, and a variety of other specimens of the genus homo, "too numerous," as the advertisements say, "to mention -- " jabbering, and chattering and making a confusion of noises, somewhat resembling that which an imaginative person might fancy to have disturbed Noah in the Ark.

Up and down the long gallery were walking, as though to give a variety to the scene, two or three fresh looking young gentlemen, in white jackets, who looked like recent arrivals and at one extremity thereof might be seen three or four children playing about, in the neighbourhood of the apothecary's quarters, under the surveillance of an ayah, or native nurse, who was squatting on a mat near the door, and trying to console a refractory baby, whose screams, mingled with the groanings of a violincello from No. 4, and the squeaking of a diseased flute in No. 8, gave a pleasant diversity to the Babel of noises, which greeted the ears of our friend.

Having ascertained that neither of the three young gentlemen, who were pacing up and down the passage, was Mr. Unposted-Ensign Phillimore, Julian Jenks thought that the best thing he could do was to inquire from one of them the number of that officer's quarters, and having acted, without loss of time, upon this resolution, he ascertained that his friend was located in No. 15, to "the best of the belief" of the gentleman he had asked.

So Julian Jenks made his way to No. 15, and, as there was no servant outside the door, he entered it without ceremony, and there he saw Mr. Frederick Phillimore, with his legs on the table, smoking a Manilla cheroot, with a cup of cold tea, and a small pile of cigar ashes upon a blue-and-white cheeseplate, beside him.

The room which Julian now entered, was the most bare and desolate he had ever seen in his life There was no mat on the floor, which was of plaster, made somewhat to resemble rough stone; and the white-washed punkah, which hung inactive from the ceiling by ropes which had once been covered with the commonest unbleached cloth of the country, had three or four large holes in the canvass, no fringe, and no gilding of any kind. In one corner of the room was a common camp-bed, in another a board ship washing-stand, and in a third about three dozen black bottles, which were most probably full of beer, whilst the fourth corner of the apartment was cut off from the main room, by a low embankment of brick and plaster in a circular form, which stretched some way along the side of the apartment, and was, as appeared to Julian, from the red earthen pots, which adorned it, intended to do duty for a bathing-room. In this enclosure were the kedgeree pots aforesaid, about half a dozen empty bottles, one or two full ditto wrapped up in wet straw, as a sort of desperate attempt to cool them; whilst the top of the little wall, that enclosed the space, was set off by a brass basin, two pieces of soap, a sponge, and a wet towel. These, with three or four blackleather bullock trunks, a couple of chairs, a tin-box and the table at which Mr. Phillimore was sitting, were the principal items of furniture which struck the attention of our friend, when first he took a survey of the apartment; and it must be acknowledged that the catalogue is not one of a particularly inviting description.

But rough and untempting as was the aspect of this apartment, there was that within which few of the palaced houses of Calcutta could boast of in such perfection -- namely, a rich and overflowing welcome, gushing warm from the heart.

"Well, here you are," cried Mr. Phillimore, starting on his legs as soon as ever he could get them off the table, "and precious glad I am to see you too. Take a cheroot. Here, qui hai -- confound it -- why don't they answer? -- well, you can light from mine. Take some beer, you look as though you wanted it," and Mr. Phillimore, suiting the action to the word, took a bottle of beer from the corner of the room, drew the cork, placed it on the table, extracted a couple of tumblers from a box, placed them on the table too, and looked as though he was determined to enjoy himself.

"Well," said Julian, after a variety of commonplace questions and answers had passed between them, "what do you think of this place? a confounded hole -- isn't it?"

"Why," returned Mr. PhiUimore, "I don't know what to say to that exactly. There's nothing to do, you see, all day, and as long as one has got plenty of money, the world goes pretty smoothly, barring the mosquitoes and a few little things of that kind."

"And the heat," suggested Julian, glancing upwards at the immoveable punkah, with a look somewhat resembling that with which the fox contemplated the grapes, before he made the notable observation that has passed into a proverb.

"Ah! true," returned Mr. Phillimore, "it is confoundedly hot isn't it? and to say the best of them, these rooms are none of the most comfortable. But we poor devils of subalterns can't live like the magnificoes of Chowringhee, so it's no use grumbling at our fate. A hundred and fifty rupees a month will just keep one in beer and cheroots."

"But you must have servants," suggested Julian.

"True," replied Mr. Phillimore, "and so I have -- two or three niggers to wait on me; but I've lent them all just now. By the bye, you remember Appleby?"

"Of course I do," said Julian, "what of him?"

"Why, I've lent him my servants," continued Phillimore, "for he wants them much more than I do -- poor fellow! I'm afraid he is in for it."

"In for what?" asked Julian Jenks.

"A hop from the twig," rejoined Phillimore; "he has got one of those horrid fevers, which I am afraid will carry him off before many hours are over. He was delirious when last I saw him, and that, they say, is the worst of signs."

"Poor little fellow!" cried Julian, in a voice of genuine concern -- "I liked that boy so much -- for boy he is still -- so young, so gentle -- I could almost cry for him. Are you sure that nothing can be done?"

"I'm afraid not," said Mr. Phillimore.

"I will go and see at all events," continued Julian, tossing away his cigar as he spoke. "Poor little Appleby! I would do any thing for him -- that I would with my whole heart. Come, show me the way."

Saying this, Julian Jenks made towards the passage, and Mr. Phillimore followed his example. In less than a minute they were at the sick youth'a door. They entered as noiselessly as possible.

The room was of the same dimensions and quite as uncomfortable as that they had just quitted. Indeed, its aspect was still more wretched, for it was dirtier and more disordered, and in one corner of the room was a heap of dirty linen, the chief part of which was stained and stiffened with blood. On the table were two or three bottles of physic, a pill-pox, and a number of blue powder-papers, a wine-glass with the remains of a draft at the bottom and clinging to the sides, a few scraps of lint, a tea-spoon, which looked as though it had held a powder, and lastly a plate full of salt and blood, in which evidently a dozen leeches or so had lately been disgorging the sanguinary meal they had made. Besides these paraphernalia, which adorned the table, there were a number of sodawater bottles, some full and some empty, in the corner of the room opposite the linen, and scattered about the floor were several large locks of beautiful soft yellow hair, which you might have almost taken for a woman's, so fine and luxuriant did they look.

Beneath a punkah, which a bearer more than nine-tenths asleep was drowsily pretending to pull, was just such a camp-bed as Julian Jenks had seen in Mr. Phillimore's quarter, and on this bed, which. was surely never designed for an invalid, lay the unfortunate, fever-stricken patient, his head shaven close to the scalp, his left arm bandaged and bloodstained, and his brows bearing evident symptoms of having lately worn a garland of leeches. Tossing about restlessly, as though seeking in vain for an easy position, and groaning like a person with a weight upon his chest, he presented to Julian Jenks and Mr. Phillimore, as they entered, an aspect to the last degree pitiable; and Julian felt his heart sink within him, as he contemplated the pale sunken cheeks, the emaciated limbs, and the distorted features of one who a few months before he had seen in all the fullness of youth and health and boundless animal spirits, with a face and a figure that might have served as a model for the painter or the sculptor, who would body forth a Ganymede or an Antinous.

Julian crept towards the sick boy's bed, and seated himself on a chair beside it. At first he felt a choaking sensation that prevented him from uttering a word, but he took one of the patient's hands into his own and looked at him with melancholy kindness. Presently he said "Appleby!"

The suffering youth turned his face towards Julian, stared at him with a vague delirious look, shook his head, and then turned it away again, with a long deep groan, which penetrated the very heart of his old associate.

"Don't you know me, Appleby? I think you must, we have been so very much together. Don't you know Jenks -- your old, old friend -- you ought to remember me, Appleby; think a little, and I'm sure you will recollect our walks to the Addington Hills -- to Beckenham -- to Norwood -- think a little, and how we went on Sundays to Sydenham -- you, Pultuney, and I?"

"I know it was very foolish of me," returned the fever-stricken sufferer with a vacant and almost idiotic look; "but I'm very young -- I didn't know better -- I had nobody to give me good advice -- I couldn't help it -- I couldn't indeed. Ha! ha! ha I it was good fun though -- give me some sodawater."

"He is wandering," whispered Phillimore; "I know what he means, he is thinking of our last revel. Poor fellow! I'm afraid that some part of this is his own fault -- perhaps mine."

"He was not wild, when I knew him," said Julian, with a sigh, as he untwisted the wire from the soda-water bottle, and poured out the effervescent fluid into a tumbler that would scarcely contain it. "Here, my poor fellow, drink this; perhaps it will refresh you a little."

The poor youth drained the tumbler eagerly, and when he had done so, he shook his head, and made some incoherent remarks about its being "poor stuff," and not "beer," and then told them to give him something better.

"I tell you -- I want it -- I'm thirsty -- Beer shrab you khitmutgar -- laou -- ha -- ha -- ha! -- what a lark to be sure -- three in a buggy -- all through the bazaar -- and two of us drunk as blazes; well, well -- I know it was wrong; but I couldn't help it -- I couldn't indeed -- I am not quite seventeen yet."

"No," said Julian, still holding him by the hand. "I know you're not -- dear little fellow! how I do wish he'd remember me for a moment! -- Appleby -- Charles -- there now -- I used to call you Charles at Addiscombe -- dear Charles, I think you should know me -- I am Jenks -- Julian Jenks, I am come to nurse you -- he looks me in the face like an idiot."

"Well, now, that was good," continued the delirious youth -- "to think that I heard her talking to me -- her, too, out here, and calling me 'Charles' -- ha -- ha -- that is good -- almost as good as three in a buggy and two of them drunk as blazes -- well, I know 'twas very stupid -- very wrong -- but that cursed curaçao -- such a mixture -- oh! ye gods! -- porter, curaçao, and champagne" -- and thus he went on wanderingly -- always alluding to the foolish debauch, which Mr. Phillimore said had taken place only the day before the poor fellow was first taken ill -- laughing every now and then at some absurd feature in his reminiscences, and checking himself to give vent to his self-reproaches and confessions of folly. After one of these incoherent bursts of regret, he turned suddenly upon his back, and held out both his arms, with his hands straightened, as a person does when he is describing the length of any particular object, and said with a slight chuckle,

"Ah! it will be that long -- yes, I think it will be just that."

"What will, Charley? -- what will be that long?" asked Julian in his kindest tone, and none were kindlier than his. "What are you speaking of, Charley?"

"Well now -- ha -- ha! that's very strange," muttered the sick youth; "I thought I heard it again -- ha -- ha -- how very odd -- out here too, and it called me Charley."

"I did call you Charley," continued Julian. "I asked what it was you were thinking of -- what will be that long?"

"That long -- yes, that long" -- still retaining his arms in the same position. "That long and with brass nails in it -- my coffin! ha! ha!"

"Do not talk in that way, Charley."

"And Jenks will be chief mourner. I think he will walk first -- he said he was very fond of me always -- and Pultuney -- he will go too -- I think he will go too -- ha -- ha -- only seventeen, they didn't think that, I'll answer for it."

And in this manner, he continued for some time deliriously talking in a low voice about his coffin, and his old friends, and his follies, every now and then interspersing his coherencies with a few faint chuckles, which were more painful to hear than any thing else, as they resembled in their sound something between the gibber of an ape and the laugh of an idiotic child.

At length the poor sufferer sunk into a feeble drowse, and Julian Jenks continued sitting by the bedside of the patient, bathing his forehead with the contents of an eau-de-cologne bottle which he Saw laying on the pillow. "And this," thought Julian, whose wonted animal spirits, which no mis' fortune of his own could suppress, had subsided into a state of complete dejection; "and this is what we come to India for -- a month or two and the work is done -- the destroyer fastens upon his victim and a week of suffering closes the scene. Poor Appleby! poor Appleby! -- how little I thought to see you thus."

It was not merely the sickness -- the suffering of his friend, or the prospect of death, near as it seemed, that so completely overcame Julian Jenks in this melancholy hour. Sickness and suffering he had seen, and to death itself he was not quite a stranger; but he had never seen sickness and suffering with so little to alleviate their miseries, as he now saw in that wretched barrack-room. To him they had always been as hideous pictures set in very handsome frames; but here was all hideous -- unredeemedly hideous -- the setting as well as the pictures.

How utterly unlike a sick-room in England -- how different the condition of that poor boy, from what it would have been at home under the same pressure of sickness and suffering -- the nicely papered room, the cheerful carpet, the white-curtained bed, and all so clean, so neat, with woman stamped on its every arrangement -- the little jar of flowers by the bed-side -- the physic-bottles, and all other things that might disgust, so carefully removed out of sight -- the pastile-burner on the chimney-piece -- the clean towels on the horse -- and countless other things indicative of female kindliness and care; but more than all -- far more than all -- the ministering presence of the mother or the sister -- comforting, aiding, sweetening the bitter draught, and shedding plentiful sunshine around her. Ah! yes -- the demon of disease is Janus-faced -- and how different the two aspects -- how different this from poor Appleby's comfortless barrack-room -- an uncarpeted, unmatted floor -- a stifling atmosphere -- a dirty apartment -- heaps of blood-stained linen in the corners -- dirty physic glasses on the table, and lastly, a native hireling drowsily pulling a punkah, and only waiting for a favourable opportunity to slink away altogether.

But poor Appleby, his sleep was not long-lasting -- he woke with a start, -- stared around him, seemed suddenly to recognise the reality of his situation, sat up for a minute in his bed, and then sunk back, in utter exhaustion, faintly articulating, "Jenks."

In a little while the poor fellow gained, or seemed to gain an accession of strength -- he expressed himself delighted to see Julian, asked a variety of questions, declared that he felt much better, that he should soon be well, and be able to drink beer again, asked particularly after Peregrine Pultuney, and begged Julian to send him a note instantly, asking him to come to the barracks as soon as he possibly could.

"Poor fellow!" thought Julian Jenks, "it may be your last request, and shall I not comply with it?"

There was an open writing-desk on the table, Julian sat down, penned the note, addressed to Mr. Poggleton's, and sent it off by his syces, almost fearing that before his friend could arrive, the soul of the sufferer would have passed from his body.

CHAPTER VI.

Illustrative of the Lights and Shadows of Indian Life.

In our penultimate chapter, we left Peregrine Pultuney starting off in a great hurry from Mrs. Parkinson's drawing-room, to embrace his old aunt on the staircase; and the chances are that long before the incidents contained in the last chapter had been brought to a close, this feat had been most effectually accomplished, so that we might almost be warranted in passing it over altogether and in bringing Peregrine Pultuney, without further delay, to the sick-chamber of poor little Appleby; but as our hero's respectable aunt is intended to cut no mean figure in these pages, we think that we are bound to introduce the reader to her with all proper formality and decorum.

Slowly walking up the broad staircase, with a white feather punkah in full use, Peregrine beheld, from the landing-place, a little, vapoury woman, about eight-and-thirty years of age. She was very slight and transparent-looking indeed, with a sort of light straw-coloured complexion, thin lips, white teeth, and a pair of large, sleepy, languishing eyes. Perhaps, she had once been a beauty, but she had lived twenty years in Bengal, and now looked precisely as though she had actually done what Hamlet desired to accomplish in his own person, and thawed and dissolved herself into a dew.

She was dressed in a white muslin robe, most elaborately worked all over, with a large deep tippet of the same manufacture, descending even lower than her waist; over this was thrown an etherial-looking light-blue scarf, which gave a more spiritual aspect to the transparent tenuity of her figure; and might have rendered the tout-ensemble something like what we may conceive of an elderly angel, if it had not been that angels are not supposed to wear caps, and Mrs. Poggleton wore one of a somewhat fantastic description, with a great quantity of very deep lace about it, and a forest of cerulean ribbons, disposed after the most tasteful fashion that can be imagined, like so many patches of blue sky in the midst of a number of light feathery clouds.

At the very first sight of this fragile-looking creature, Peregrine Pultuney moderated his ardour, and abandoned all thoughts of the warm embrace he had contemplated, lest he might happen to murder his aunt at the first introduction, by breaking her into particles in his arms. He had spoken of her before hand, as his "respectable aunt;" and there is no reason on earth to suppose that she was not as respectable as if she had been more solid in the flesh; but still she did not answer his preconceived notions of a "respectable aunt" in the least. He had expected to see a substantial, homely-looking person, in a silk gown and a straw bonnet, who would be none the worse for a strenuous hugging, and as ready to give as to receive; but instead of this, he saw a vaporous being, who looked as though she would fall to pieces, if she were handled roughly, or blow away like the top of a syllabub, if you only breathed a little harder than usual.

But down stairs Peregrine ran, nevertheless, and introduced himself to his vaporous aunt in the most gently affectionate manner, that it was possible to employ on such an occasion; but he was a little too rough for her -- too sudden -- he startled, he flurried her, and she clung to the ballusters for support.

"Dear me!" said Mrs. Poggleton, in just such a voice as you would expect to hear from a bag of white muslin, "how you frightened me! my nephew! dear me -- my nerves -- how rough you are, nephew -- I can't get over it -- so sudden, so rough -- only think, dear me!"

"I am very sorry, aunt, that I startled you," returned Peregrine, "but I was so very anxious to see you."

"Well! I don't wonder, dear me!" continued the lady, fumbling away at a gold-stoppered smelling bottle, "but you are so rough, you men always are -- there, nephew, perhaps you can open that, my fingers are so weak -- I shall be better soon, give me your arm -- it is so hot too -- only think, dear me!"

Having in. this manner several times over, desired her nephew to be thoughtful, and expressed her opinion of her own dearness, Mrs. Poggleton collected herself sufficiently to crawl upstairs, by the assistance of her nephew and her fan, at the rate of two stairs a minute -- a tardy mode of proceeding upon her part, which had one beneficial effect, as it gave Peregrine plenty of time to explain to his aunt the mistake he had made, in coming to the wrong house, and to apologize again for the roughness of the salutation, with which he had greeted her. When he had done, Mrs. Poggleton "dear-meed" a little, said it was very funny indeed, but that she found laughing so fatiguing, expressed herself highly amused at the idea of being confounded with Mrs. Parkinson, and at last, after a good deal of panting and halting, reached the summit of the staircase and entered the drawing-room.

The usual salutations were gone through, Miss Lucretia Gowanspec was introduced to Mrs. Poggleton, and Mrs. Poggleton said that her visit was expressly to the young ladies, and so Miss Lucretia was sent to fetch her sister, and then there was another introduction, and finally they were all seated in a sort of circle, and the following animated conversation ensued.

"How is the dear girl, your daughter?" asked Mrs. Parkinson, "I hope she is not poorly, sweet soul! I should be so very sorry to hear -- a slight cold perhaps only;" and Mrs. Parkinson, who, now that she had got two disposable spinsters of her own, cordially wished Miss Poggleton in the churchyard, endeavoured to put on a sympathizing face, and to look as though she really meant it.

"Dear me! I forgot," returned Mrs. Poggleton, leaning back in an easy chair most languishingly, "well, I never -- so stupid of me; but I have such a wretched memory, so very bad -- poor Julia! she is so very tired, you can't think, two or three nights running -- only think, dear me!"

"It is very fatiguing," said Mrs. Parkinson, "very fatiguing indeed. I wonder how people can stand it, and in such a climate as this."

"Climate -- oh! dear me!" returned Mrs. Poggleton, "it is such a climate, isn't it? Yet, some people, I can't conceive how; they do never get tired at all, it would kill me, .positively it would -- only think, dear me!"

Then there was a pause, which Mrs. Poggleton took advantage of to roll her large eyes in the direction in which the Miss Gowanspecs were sitting, and to take a quiet survey of the young ladies in a most genteel manner imaginable, having done which she looked at Peregrine, and then turned towards Mrs. Parkinson -- the white feather fan hard at work all the while, and said, "Dear me! how well, only think, those fresh -- fresh arrivals do look -- I declare, how funny it is -- quite, what do they call it? rosy, I think -- well, I never, dear me!"

"I am afraid they won't keep it long," said Mrs. Parkinson, "I didn't keep mine long, I know."

Then there was another silence, which this time Mrs. Parkinson was the first to break, by asking the other lady, with a look and in a tone which made Peregrine, who was observing the scene most attentively, think that the former was doing her best to "trot out" his vapoury aunt, if she had been fortunate enough to hear any news lately.

"News -- oh, dear me! let me think," said the little languishing lady, brightening up a trifle; "well, now, I have heard, I think, that Miss -- lor! what's her name? that little girl, with the long ringlets that came out last year in the Hungerford."

"Miss Ogleby," suggested Mrs. Parkinson.

"Ah! to be sure," continued Mrs. Poggleton -- "only think! how stupid to forget, Miss Ogleby -- well, they say she's going to be married on the 20th -- I think it is the 20th -- of next month."

"Indeed!" said Mrs. Parkinson, "and to whom?"

"Oh! lor! don't you know? why to that Mr. Wilkinson -- It's sure to come off very soon, for Julia told me that the other evening, at Mrs. Bell's, he danced with her two quadrilles."

Peregrine thought it was very strange that a gentleman might not dance two quadrilles with a lady, without being obliged to marry her; but he was a griff, and knew nothing at all about the rules of Calcutta society.

"Well," continued Mrs. Poggleton, who seemed to drawl out, with much gusto, these little items of personal news, "there's no accounting for tastes to be sure, that Miss Ogleby, dear me! she is such a strange girl -- I shouldn't like a daughter of mine to -- only think, dear me!"

"To do what?" asked Mrs. Parkinson, smiling. "To dress like that Miss Ogleby, oh! fie -- and with such shoulders too, poor girl ! always covered with the -- dear me! prickly heat; and for my part -- well, some people can, some people are so strong -- how she can waltz in that rough way, and with such, a figure too as hers -- only think! dear me!"

Peregrine thought that the allusion, in Mrs. Parkinson's presence, to an unwaltzable figure, was somewhat misplaced, as that lady was almost as substantial in the flesh, as his aunt was aerial and fragile. There was something particularly diverting in the contrast, and Peregrine Pultuney enjoyed it amazingly.

"Talking about shoulders," continued Mrs. Poggleton, growing more animated every minute, "did you ever see any thing like -- dear me! that Mrs. Bareskin -- it's quite, really quite dreadful. I can't see how people can look at her."

"People do look at her," observed Mrs. Parkinson.

"Oh! yes, I dare say they do, the gentlemen at least -- dear me! and that Mr. Leerwell, too, quite shocking to see them every night on the course, always sure to be riding by her carriage; upon my word, a very regular attendant! -- only think! dear me!"

"You were not out, of course, last night," said Mrs. Parkinson.

"Dear no! it was so provoking, I always do miss my drive so. I hear that the bride was out, and he ! -- he! -- got wet to the skin."

"Was she?" remarked Mrs. Parkinson, "how very indiscreet to be sure."

"Indiscreet!" exclaimed the languishing lady, "he! he! -- that's very good! -- a new carriage you see; poor thing, she could not resist the temptation of showing it off for the first time: only think! -- dear me! and all those beautiful orange flowers -- "

"Spoilt, I suppose," observed Mrs. Parkinson.

"Oh! I suppose so," continued Mrs. Poggleton; "but what does it matter to her. Twelve or fifteen lakhs, and a husband old enough to be her father at the least. Dear me! think of that, Mrs. Parkinson; such dresses you never saw, and jewels too. I know she hates him; but she has got -- only think -- the run of Pittar's and Hamilton's, and that will make her happy for a year."

"Did you hear," asked Mrs. Parkinson, with a smile, "that Miss Dance is going to be married?"

"Miss Dance! only think -- dear me! -- well -- well! wonders will never -- and to whom? only think! Miss Dance!"

"To Mr. Fast, of the Civil Service," said Mrs. Parkinson.

"Well -- well! only to think; a lakh and a half in debt, I believe -- with only a thousand a month That's a bad match at all events."

Mrs. Poggleton uttered these last words, as though there was something eminently refreshing in the thought of Miss Dance's having made a bad match; and it is more than probable that she would have manifested her inward satisfaction still more palpably, if a servant had not entered the room at this juncture, and put a loosely folded note with a deep black edge to it into Mrs. Parkinson's hand.

"Bless me!" exclaimed that lady, directly she had perused the contents of it; "how shocking, to be sure!"

The note was in fact one of those dreadful undertaker's circulars, which are sent round to the principal houses in Calcutta, almost immediately an inhabitant dies, to inform the friends of the late Mr. So-and-So, that his "remains will be removed for interment," from his residence in such and such a place at a certain hour of the same afternoon, and which frequently are the first announcements you receive of the death of some neighbour or acquaintance.

"Who's dead now, pray?" asked Mrs. Poggleton, who was too well used to the sight of these billets not to know their full meaning at a glance; "Who's dead, now, Mrs. Parkinson?"

"Mr. Collingwood," returned Mrs. Parkinson; "it really is quite shocking; he dined with us the day before yesterday -- cholera, I suppose -- dreadful!" and Mrs. Parkinson endeavoured to look quite overcome, but was not particularly successful.

But Mrs. Poggleton pretended nothing at all: she leant forward, held out her hand for the undertaker's circular, looked rather pleased than otherwise, and said, "Dear me! if it is not the gentleman with that pretty carriage, I declare."

"Small use to him a pretty carriage now," said Mrs. Parkinson, "the only carriage that he needs is a hearse."

"Oh! but," exclaimed Mrs. Poggleton, with more eagerness than she had manifested throughout the conversation, "I have been dying a long time for that carriage, and now I shall be able to get it. What a nice thing to be sure!"

Upon this Mrs. Parkinson lifted up her hands, and pretended to be immeasurably shocked, muttering to herself, but quite loud enough for every body to hear, that life was a span, and death hanging over us, and that the world might be destroyed to-morrow, for any thing she knew to the contrary, with sundry other moral reflections of this kind, equally original, and expressive of virtuous emotion.

There was this difference between the two ladies, that, whereas Mrs. Poggleton cared for no one but herself, and took pains to hide her infirmity from no one; Mrs. Parkinson, who was if any thing the more intensely selfish of the two, took the greatest possible trouble to conceal her weakness by expressions of feelings and sympathies, that had no existence anywhere else but in her very fertile imagination. Both were destitute of one spark of generosity -- the one was a hypocrite and no fool -- the other a fool but no hypocrite. Mrs. Poggleton was ridiculous, but Mrs. Parkinson was dangerous; and Peregrine Pultuney had discovered that truth before he had been twenty minutes in their society.

Having declared in this manner the little concern she felt for the demise of poor Mr. Collingwood, the little lady began to discourse about the stories she had heard of the deceased -- how he had been juwabed (refused) by Miss Larkins, and how he had proposed to Miss Sparks -- then how Miss Sparks had done something or other, or Mr. Collingwood had done something or other, which had caused the match to be broken off, and how she knew that Mr. Collingwood had written to England for his carriage, and it had come out in the Duke of Bedford, with sundry other interesting facts concerning the deceased gentleman, all given upon the very best authority; having finished which, she was just beginning to expatiate upon the beauties of some new drawing-room clocks, that had just come out to Mr. Pittar, the jeweller, when a servant came into the room, presented Peregrine Pultuney with a chit, and put a stop to that young gentleman's observations.

Peregrine Pultuney read the note hastily, turned very pale, rose from his seat, and wished Mrs. Parkinson good bye.

"Where are you going, Peregrine?" asked Mrs. Poggleton, "what's the matter? dear me, how strange -- only to think -- what can be the matter?"

"I must go," said Peregrine, "I must indeed! a poor friend of mine is dying, and he wishes to see me before he dies."

"Dear me! dying is he," drawled Mrs. Poggleton, "how funny! -- how people do die. Sit down, though -- it's no use going -- perhaps he will be dead before you get there -- and then to have had that trouble, all that trouble for nothing."

"It will not be for nothing, indeed," said Peregrine; "I shall have the inward satisfaction of knowing that I have done my best."

"Inward satisfaction! dear me! what's that?" exclaimed Mrs. Poggleton; and having said this, she thought to herself, "What a griffin the boy is to be sure."

"I really must go," resumed Peregrine, "every moment of delay is dangerous: it is not very far to the fort, and they have sent the buggy to fetch me."

"Well, if you must then," said Mrs. Poggleton; "and to the fort too -- such a_horrid place -- we tiff you know at two, Peregrine. Well I never saw such a boy -- to go away in a hurry like that -- only think, dear me!"

The last few sentences of this speech were inaudible as far as Peregrine was concerned, for he had reached the bottom of the stairs before the final word had been fairly uttered, and in less than a minute from the time at which he quitted the apartment, he was driving as hard as he could down the road that leads to the Chowringhee Gate, in a fever of anxiety and excitement.

In a very few minutes, directed by the syces, he was at the foot of the south-barrack staircase, and in less time than it takes to write down the words, he had bounded up the stairs and gained the passage. There he looked along the wall for No. 15, but, as the figures over the doors were mostly effaced, he paced the whole length of the gallery in vain, and at last, giving it up in despair, called out to a native "Appleby sahib." The man, whom he addressed, was fortunately one of poor Appleby's own servants, who was lazily returning from his dinner, with his brass pots in his hand; from him Peregrine gained the information he required, and speedily passed the threshold of the poor youth's sick-chamber.

And here, if we were disposed to moralize, abundant food for philosophical reflection might be found in the contrast now presented to our hero between the flippancy, the heartlessness, the insincerity, the utter absence of all serious and ennobling thought, which he had just left behind him in that luxurious Chowringhee drawing-room, and the painful realities of the dark picture now presented to him, with all the stern but purifying truthfulness it embodied, in the wretched, close, dirty barrack-room, whose atmosphere he was now breathing. Certainly every thing that he now saw, to his outward eyes wore an aspect far less pleasing than that which had gladdened them in the Chowringhee drawing-room; there were no damask silk couches -- no marble tables -- no costly trumperies -- but there was not, at the same time, all that selfishness and hypocrisy, which to him was far more disgusting than the unswept floor, and the heap of blood-stained linen, in a corner of a room scarcely as good as one of Mrs. Parkinson's godowns. Dark, fearful, agonizing as was the picture he now looked upon, there was nothing about it bespeaking that utter debasement of human nature which he had witnessed in the Chowringhee drawing-room. He beheld men, under every disadvantage it is true, as far as the outward and visible were concerned -- in the midst of dirt, discomfort, misery, sickness; nay, indeed, in the near presence of death; but they were men still -- made after the image of God, with some trace of the divinity about them -- not mowing and chattering apes, with the monkey-stamp visible upon their feature.

When Peregrine entered the sick-chamber, he saw Julian Jenks sitting by the bed-side of the sufferer, and Phillimore squeezing a lime into a tumbler, in preparation for a draught of lemonade. On the features of the two young men were impressed most visible signs of heartfelt concern, but the patient himself, pale and attenuated as he was, looked far more cheerful than either of them. Over that thin ghastly face there struggled a few rays of heart-sunshine, which neither pain, nor oppression, nor exhaustion, nor the death-pang itself, could bedim. Peregrine would not have known his poor friend if it had not been for the old, familiar smile, which he recognized upon the poor boy's lips -- the same in its essence, but oh! how different the associations with which it was connected.

And that smile grew brighter -- brighter still, as Peregrine approached the bed of his poor little fever-stricken friend. Feeble was the grasp, with which the dying boy returned the pressure of Peregrine's hand; but if the strong heart could at that moment have performed the functions of the unstrung muscles, that grasp would have been as the grasp of a giant. Poor fellow! -- it was some comfort to him to have such kind faces around him.

Julian Jenks made way for his friend beside the pillow-head of Appleby's couch, and Peregrine sat down in the chair that was vacated for him. "It was very kind of you," said the sick boy, in a faint voice that told too plain a story of increasing weakness, -- "it was very kind of you to come so soon."

Peregrine pressed the poor boy's hand and said, in a voice scarcely louder than his friend's -- "My dear little fellow, don't talk of that. I am sorry to see you thus; but yet I am glad to see you -- you have had a sad time of it, I am afraid."

"Oh! -- a little; but I'm better now," said the sick boy, "and with you and Jenks, I shall soon be well again. I wish you had come before -- your kind face would have helped me through a great deal of it."

"I wish I had," said Peregrine Pultuney, and he cordially felt what he said. "I wish I could have helped you through it."

"Well," continued Appleby, "it's no use talking of that -- I ought to be thankful to have you here now. Do you know, I was delirious just now, and when Jenks came in and called me 'Charley," I thought it was my mother's voice, and it sounded so strange in my ears -- well -- well. We have been talking together about the excursions we took together at Addiscombe -- do you remember that Sunday when we walked to Chiselhurst -- you, Julian and I?"

"Oh! yes, very well," said Peregrine.

"I remember," continued Appleby, with a bright smile upon his face, "what a beautiful sunshiny afternoon it was -- in September -- I think it was September -- and the trees looked so rich and variegated, brown and green, and some quite red. I remember it, as if it were yesterday -- and we stopped by Beckenham church-yard and heard the organ, for it was afternoon service, and then a little further on, can you remember seeing the two buffaloes in the field, and we thought they were such curiosities?"

"Oh! yes," said Peregrine, "I do remember it, those were happy days, weren't they, Charley?"

"Happy? yes, very" returned the poor boy. "We used to grumble though, whilst they were passing, but I would willingly spend them again, for the joy of those afternoon walks. Do you remember, Peregrine, how we met the old soldier, as we were going up Bromley-hill, and how you gave him the only shilling you had -- the only shilling indeed we had between us, and with which we intended to buy beer at Bromley; we were very thirsty indeed, I remember, and well me might be after that long walk."

"We were indeed!" exclaimed Peregrine.

"And we stopped, I remember," continued the sick youth, "at a little shallow well by the roadside, and scooped out some water with our hands, and just as you were bending down, you saw a shilling lying upon a stone. I remember, that when you picked it up, you smiled and said it was a 'Godsend -- ' and I said so too, and declared that you were fully entitled to spend it; but you would not; and said you would go on and give it to the next beggar that you met -- and you did too, in the streets of Bromley -- Oh! how well I remember it. Do you know, Peregrine, I'm sorry now that I tried to persuade you to spend it on beer."

"Nay," said Peregrine, "I don't see why you need be sorry -- it was a whimsical notion of mine."

"I wish it had been my notion too," said Appleby, "there would be a great deal of comfort in the thought. I can't tell why it is, but a number of little things -- just as little as that every bit -- come rising up against me now, and they make me feel very unhappy. Perhaps, it is -- I think it must be, Peregrine -- that I am going to die."

"Oh!" cried Peregrine, eagerly, "don't think that -- you must know that you are much better."

"Better, -- I am easier, certainly, but I have such a sinking within -- the weight seems to have gone from my chest; but I have an inward feeling -- a sense as it were of an utter ruin inside. Well, we won't think of it. Do you remember the day we were upset on the canal, going up to the Greyhound at Sydenham, and the little harbour in the garden, where we had the punch?"

These last words were uttered, in such a feeble voice, that though Peregrine inclined his head until he felt the speaker's breath upon his cheek, he could scarcely hear what was said. The suffering boy had, in fact, completely worn himself out, and Peregrine perceiving this put his finger to his lips, begged him not to talk any more, and enjoined most scrupulous silence to his companions, who indeed needed not the injunction. In a little while the poor boy slept; and when the medical officer, who attended him, paid his afternoon visit, he pronounced his patient to be quite free from fever, and ordered some light nourishing food to be prepared against the time of his awakening. But that time, alas! never arrived. The sun went down and the poor youth was still asleep, with a look of sweet serenity on his face, as though he were dreaming of his home and his kindred. And indeed he was, for before the quick coming darkness had obscured the room in which he lay, Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks saw the white lips of the sufferer move, and as they leant over him with anxious faces and throbbing hearts, they heard him syllable the word "mother." Poor boy! he never spoke again -- he breathed out his life with that word, and died from utter exhaustion.

CHAPTER VII.

A short Chapter, and a stupid one, introducing the Family of the Poggletons.

It is possible there may have been greater fools in the world, nay, indeed, in the city of Calcutta, than the lady whom we introduced to our readers in the last chapter, under the style and title of Mrs. Poggleton, for we are well aware that the world in general, and Calcutta in particular, has always a constant supply of that kind of livestock on hand; but we can safely undertake to assert that Peregrine Pultuney, though he had had some small experience in that way, rising out of his relationship to nine maiden ladies, who tried to be mistaken for his sisters, whilst they were in reality his aunts, had never met with such a brilliant specimen of no-mind-at-all-ishness in the whole course of his life. It was not that she sometimes said very foolish things, but that she never said any thing else, or, indeed, never did any thing else; for she was a great talker in her way, and would go on "dear-me"-ing and "he-he"-ing for hours, if she could only get a tolerable listener. It has been said, that there is no person so ignorant that the wisest man cannot gain something from his or her conversation, and we suppose it is true, for the wise man might have gained from an hour's conversation with Mrs. Poggleton, a very strong confirmation of the fact, that there are exceptions to this rule as well as to every other; but that there was anything else to be gained from Mrs. Poggleton's conversation, we most unhesitatingly deny. To have extracted a particle of sense from all she said in a fortnight, would have been as difficult as to extract attar out of paving-stones, or hope out of a Bengal army-list.

She was the sister of Peregrine's mother -- a younger sister, we believe, and had gone out to India, at sixteen, under the care of some female relative, who had shown her off for a season at the Government-house balls, and at last married .her to a gentleman in the civil service, who being struck with her pretty face, -- for she was very pretty then, -- had taken it into his head to disband his zenana and set up for a moral character, with a wife, a barouche, a house in Chowringhee, and an impaired constitution.

But Mr. Poggleton was a man of unquestionable talent, as far as his own line of business went, and why should he concern himself about any other? He was, more properly speaking, "a good government servant," a term which we hear applied to some very clever fellows, and to some of the stupidest dogs in existence. He was secretary to a board, or some such thing -- was, of course, at his office all day long, and when he came home tired in the evening he was always glad, he said, that he had got "a fool of a wife" to talk nonsense to him and to send him to sleep. She was a good-natured fool, moreover; and as she had not the wit to be sensible of the utter contempt with which Mr. Poggleton regarded her, they went on very well together. He lounged about in his easy chair, smoked his ehillum, and, except when the presence of company rendered it necessary that he should exert himself, amused himself by thinking what a fool his wife was, and wondering if she thought he was edified. A slight change had lately taken place in their way of life, owing to the arrival from England of their only child, Miss Julia Poggleton, who was like neither father nor mother, but a pretty intelligent girl, with a kind heart and vivacious manners, and a wonderful acquisition, therefore, to the deadlylively establishment of No. 8, Street, Chowringhee, where the drawl of Mrs. Poggleton's voice, the bubbling of Mr. Poggleton's hookah, and the occasional "cockatoo" of a bird of that name, were the only sounds audible all day, except when the popping of champagne bottles announced that there was a burra-khana, or great dinner-going off, -- and Mrs. Poggleton's burra-khanas were about the stupidest and most sumptuous in all Calcutta.

But far better than by any formal descriptions of this kind, shall we be able to make our readers acquainted with the Poggleton family, by following the fortunes of Peregrine Pultuney, who, having witnessed the melancholy consummation which brought our last chapter to a close, and reported the circumstance to the superintendent of cadets, set off for Spence's Hotel in a tickah-palankin, leaving Julian Jenks and Mr. Phillimore, who had agreed to dine together in the barrack-room of the latter, to do all that was necessary regarding the property of the deceased, such as sealing up his boxes and taking an inventory of them. At Spence's our hero paid his bill, placed all his moveables under the care of Gunga Ram, sirdar, and desiring Peer Khan to accompany the palankin, and to learn the way from one of Spence's chuprasseys, (waiters) set out once more for Poggleton sahib's.

By the assistance of his fidus Achates, our hero soon found himself sliding out of his palankin beneath the portico of Mr. Poggleton's house, just at the very time that his aunt's barouche was sweeping into the compound. It was very nearly dark, for it was half-past seven, and the ladies, who had been fortunate in having a fine evening, were returning from their drive on the course. Peregrine handed them out of the carriage, and took the opportunity of introducing himself to his interesting cousin with a kiss.

"Lor! -- it's you, Peregrine, is it! -- only think!" said Mrs. Poggleton. "You mustn't do that. Julia, my dear, what is he about? Lor! what a fellow! he does agitate me so, dear me!"

"I was only kissing cousin Julia," returned Peregrine, in a very innocent tone of voice, as though the little act just performed had been a matter of course. "I was only kissing my cousin."

"Kissing your cousin! Well, I never!" exclaimed Mrs. Poggleton, as she took her nephew's arm, and helped herself across the hall. "Lor, what a boy! Dear me! he will be the death of me very soon, that he will!"

"I hope not my dear aunt," said Peregrine.

"Ah! well, you, young men! -- but it's no use saying anything to you -- you're always at some prank or other. I'll be bound now you've been doing no good since you ran away from Mrs. Parkinson's this morning."

"I'm afraid," returned Peregrine, "that I did not do quite so much good as I could have wished; but more, certainly, than if I had stayed behind. My poor little friend is dead, aunt; but he died quite happy."

"Well, now that's very funny," said Mrs. Poggleton -- "how people do die, to be sure. There was that Mr. Collingwood only yesterday, and somebody on the course told me that Mrs. Sarcophagus had lost her little boy of the measles, and I saw a funeral going up Park-street, -- and there's your friend. Well, there's no knowing -- life's a span, as Mrs. Parkinson says. I hope, Peregrine, you always say your prayers."

Peregrine made no answer to this, but we do not undertake to say that his silence was the result of his inability to answer it satisfactorily. Perhaps he thought that his aunt did not care a straw whether he said them or not, which, indeed, was the fact; but her thoughts were in the habit of taking such unlimited ranges, that it was not at all uncommon for her to make the strangest possible allusions a-propos of nothing, in the middle of a speech, and to set her hearers agape by the extraordinary branch-off-ishness of her style, which ran about like water on a greasy table, after no established fashion, or in any regulated course, but discursive and erratic to the last degree, and as variform as the mouths of the Ganges.

"Well, here we are," she said, "upstairs at last, -- dear me! how fatiguing it is -- and this is my drawing-room, Peregrine; -- now don't you think it's prettier than Mrs. Parkinson's? Ah! but you can't see to be sure -- it is not lighted up yet. Dear me! that woman, -- I don't know what she thinks. I've told them to get a room ready for you. You've brought your own servants, I suppose. Here, you, bearer -- qui hi -- may I trouble you, Peregrine -- to call qui hi -- your voice is louder than mine is -- I am so weak -- I am indeed, Peregrine. Ah! that's right. What a thing it is to be fresh from Europe, to be sure!"

It was certainly a good thing, as far as lungs were concerned, for there was no deficiency of tone in the voice with which Peregrine, in obedience to his aunt's request, bellowed out gui-hi. Nor was the call in any way unproductive, for the response was instantly given from two or three quarters, and two or three bearers presently appeared, to one of whom Mrs. Poggleton gave directions, in Hindustani, to show Peregrine to his room; having done which, she vanished like a sprite, in some strange style or other, through a red damask curtain, which was hung across a door-space in the drawing-room, and was doing the same kind of duty as the silk doors which we described, in Mrs. Parkinson's show-room.

Peregrine had just time to take a glance at the apartment, and to satisfy himself that it was almost, if not quite, as elaborately luxurious as the upholstery-shop he had seen in the morning, before he followed the sable attendant to the chamber that had been set apart for his accommodation, fully expecting to find it fitted up on a scale of luxury and magnificence corresponding with that of the salon, with the marble tables, the damask couches, and the splendid chandeliers; but he knew nothing at all about the matter, and so found himself grievously mistaken.

The room, into which he was shown, was of tolerable dimensions, but exceedingly barren of furniture. A faint darkness-visible sort of a light was thrown over it, or rather over a part of it, from a tumbler, containing a cotton wick and a little cocoanut-oil floating at the top of some water, which said tumbler was located on a very antique-looking, debauched, round, three-legged table, about the size of the crown of one's hat. In the middle of the apartment was a huge four-post bedstead, with musquito curtains, and a mattress, looking as difficult of ascent as the Table Mountain, and almost as uninviting to sleep upon, whilst another little three-legged, square table, with a round hole in it, to admit a blue-and-white basin, was occupying a remote corner of the room, and somewhere in its near vicinity was an old book-stand, with five or six phials and bottles on the shelves, which looked as though they had come out of the dispensary, when Lord Clive was governor-general. These paraphernalia, together with two or three chairs, constituted all the comforts and luxuries of the chamber, and Peregrine Pultuney could not help contrasting the comfortless and beggarly aspect of this apartment, with the luxurious costliness of the show-room, which was so well adapted for lighting up. "We do things differently in England," thought Peregrine.

And the young gentleman was quite right in that respect, for it would be difficult for two things with the same name to be more unlike one another, than hospitality, as it exists in England, and hospitality, as it exists in India. In England, a man is slow to open his doors to you, but when once he does, the guest who is admitted, immediately finds himself in clover -- the best bed-room -- the best every thing is his -- and he is snuggled to his heart's content; whilst in India, a man's gates are thrown open to you on the instant, but the deuce a bit is there of any best bed-room, or best of any thing else to snuggle you. In England, hospitality runs into details ; in India it deals in generalities. In England, before the arrival of a guest the note of preparation is sounded -- every little item connected with his accommodation -- every thing that can bear upon his wants, actual or imaginary, is looked into most sedulously by the host or his deputies -- the fire in the bed-room is lighted a day or two before, to see that the chimney does not smoke -- the finest linen is taken out of the press -- the beds are well aired -- the fenders are brightened up -- and every thing made comfortable in anticipation. The guest arrives, and he is shown to his apartment, most probably by the master of the house himself -- there is the bright crackling fire, with the well-polished brass miniature kettle smoking away on its little stand by the hob -- there is the soft-cushioned, white-draperied arm-chair, wheeled upon the comfortable hearth-rug -- the horse with its smoothly-ironed towels "of sorts" -- the washing-stand with its et ceteras all so well supplied -- fresh sharp-cornered cakes of sweetly-smelling soap and toilet-bottles full of eau-de-cologne -- the inkstand and the portfolio with the new pens and sealing-wax on the little writing-table, kindly inviting you to sit up all night and write sonnets, if you be a poet, or letters if you are afflicted with correspondents -- then the warm-curtained bed, with its white coverlid and soft immaculate pillows -- the China candlesticks and spell-holders on the mantelpiece, and the cheerful pictures hanging over it -- all combine to make a perfect snuggery of the room, and a happy fellow of the fortunate stayer out. But in India, little or no preparation is made for the advent of a guest. He is expected to bring every thing with him; and when you ask your friend to come and live with you for six weeks, you scarcely mean more than that you hope he will pitch his tent in your compound. You give him room enough and plenty to eat, but there the hospitality ends. A bedstead he may find, perhaps, but pillows, and sheets, and pillow-cases, and towels, he must take with him, if he desires such luxuries. Bed-rooms without bedding, dressing-rooms without looking-glasses, and bathing-rooms without bathing-pots, are not looked upon as inhospitable manifestations, for people are expected to take the two former commodities with them, and the latter may be got for a few pice in the bazaar. In England, too, the servants of the house take prodigious pains to make their master's guests comfortable -- urged thereto by the hopes of reward -- but in India, another man's servant will not move an inch for you, of his own free will, however much you may stand in need of his services. You are expected to more about with your own servants -- and the man who goes out to spend a couple of days without a retinue, is an ass of the first magnitude. The punkah is stopped, when the master or mistress of the house quits the room -- and you may call qui-hi till you are hoarse without eliciting an answer -- Indian servants have very little manners in this respect, and have no idea of waiting on a barca sahib, for the tipping system is as much unknown in an Indian household, as "a best bedroom" is in an Indian house. People are expected to come and live with one "camp fashion," as they come to dinner in the Mofussil -- but there is a great deal of hospitality in this, for it sets a guest very much at his ease, and enables him to follow his own inclinations much more than he can, when. he is dependent upon his host for every little necessary trifle. It has its advantages doubtless -- but commend us -- oh! commend us -- to the best bedroom!

And Peregrine thought so too, as he made his toilet by the light of the wick in the tumbler, and the assistance of Gunga Ram, sirdar, who had arrived with his master's clothes from Spence's, and was all ready with some long story or other, of which Peregrine did not understand a word.

The young gentleman, however, put on a wise face, said "ac'chaa" (ver well) and went on dressing, just as though he understood every word of it.

Having finished his toilet, pretty much to his own satisfaction, notwithstanding the discomfort of his chamber, Peregrine Pultuney was glad to escape into the drawing-room, where he found his uncle, whom he had never seen before, skimming over the Courier newspaper, and beating a tattoo with his knuckles on the table. He was a tall, dark man, with a high forehead and thin lips, and there was something austere about his countenance, that rather prejudiced our hero against him; that young gentleman, however, who, if need had been, would have walked up to a lion, stepped forward, held out his hand, and said in his natural frank voice, "I'm glad to see you, Uncle Poggleton."

"Oh! my nephew -- Peregrine Pultuney. How are you, sir -- I'm glad to see you."

Peregrine thanked his uncle, said he was pretty well, and hoped Mr. Poggleton was the same.

"As well as a man can be in this infernal weather," said Mr. Poggleton -- "go and pull off that coat of yours -- and put on a white jacket. It makes one hot to look at you."

Peregrine did as he was told, like a good boy; and when he returned to the drawing-room he saw that his cousin had joined her father, and was sitting beside him on the sofa.

We suppose that we ought to say something about Julia Poggleton in this place, as we intend her to be one of the heroines of our story, or at all events to stand in the place of one; and therefore we shall begin by saying that she was just such a girl, as any young gentleman of an amorous temperament might very much like to have as a cousin. It is part of our creed that there is no harm at all in kissing one's cousin when one likes -- it is quite as harmless and much nicer than kissing one's sister, and is on the whole a very pretty occupation. The little supplementary acts of putting one's arm round the waist, and laying one's hand on the shoulder, and playing with the dear little ringlets of the pretty cousin, are even more harmless than the kissing; and it is mainly upon this score that we say Miss Julia Poggleton was a very nice girl to have for a cousin. She was pretty, certainly -- elegant, unquestionably -- and lady-like, beyond all shadow of doubt. She had bluish grey eyes with very dark lashes -- dark, we mean, for eyes of that colour -- they were eyes with very large pupils, that you could almost see yourself in, and Peregrine thought that they were beautiful; her hair was of a light brown colour -- it was not yellow -- it was n6t auburn -- it was certainly not red -- it was a rich, but not a dark, brown, and it curled -- no very common thing in an Indian August -- curled in the prettiest natural ringlets imaginable, moved about a little by the wind from the punkah; her lips were very inviting; her cheeks were colourless -- whose are not in an Indian August? -- and her skin was most delicately transparent -- so much so that you could see her blue veins beneath it -- and very soft indeed to the touch. What more can we say? -- Nose a little aquiline -- feet and hands quite unexceptional -- and waist very sylph-like indeed -- altogether in short, a very sweet creature in book-muslin, and very nice, as we have said, and as Peregrine thought, to have for one's favourite cousin.

Peregrine did his best to be very agreeable throughout the whole of the evening, but he was in low spirits, and was not therefore completely successful. The death of his poor little friend had thrown a gloom over him, which even the smiles of his pretty cousin could not wholly dispel. However he talked and laughed and did the best he could; and the Poggletons therefore thought him amusing. The dinner was excellent, and served up with the greatest possible taste -- the wine cooled to a nicety -- though the ice was not -- Mrs. Poggleton talked as much nonsense as usual, whilst Mr. Poggleton looked on and smiled. In the evening the young lady repaired to the piano, and sang two or three simple ballad songs with a truthfulness of feeling and expression that found their way to Peregrine's heart; and when that young gentleman went to bed, he had fully made up his mind that his cousin Julia was the sweetest girl he had ever met in his life.

CHAPTER VIII.

Containing some very choice Matter illustrative of Indian Society -- a Flirtation and a Drive on the Course.

The following day was spent by Peregrine Pultuney in the pleasing occupation of doing nothing, than which there are few things more delightful, when you have a great deal to do, and few things more laborious, when you arc compelled to do it -- a truth, we are afraid, that is sadly illustrative of the perversity for which human nature is said to be celebrated.

But as Peregrine Pultuney's do-nothingness was enlivened by some very pleasant conversation with his pretty cousin, perhaps he ought to be exempted from the general censure, and neither classed amongst the idle or the perverse. Julia Poggleton was a very nice girl -- lively, intelligent, and just a little satirical -- not too much so, not ill-naturedly so, but just enough to give a pleasant seasoning to her conversation, and to render her a most delightful companion, whenever she thought it worth her while to be so.

And she did think it worth her while to be agreeable to Peregrine Pultuney; for that young gentleman had about him certain most winning ways -- what they were we pretend not to know, but they certainly were winning ways -- which made him a great favourite with the softer sex in general, and with Miss Julia Poggleton in particular, who, being a young lady of very great discernment, saw our hero's good qualities at a glance, and almost immediately lifted him over the heads of all her gentlemen acquaintance.

And so it happened that after breakfast the young people were left alone in the drawing-room. Mr. Poggleton went off to the office in his palki-gharre and Mrs. Poggleton was taking her breakfast, according to her usual custom, in her dressing-room; and Peregrine, you may be sure, gentle reader, was not very sorry for that.

"Well, here we are," said Peregrine, "a horrid rainy day outside, and every thing very comfortable in -- now don't you think, Julia, I should be a great simpleton, if I were to trust myself outside, without the least occasion in the world for going?"

"I think you would, indeed," returned Julia, smiling; "but you men never know when you are well off; it seems as though it were the creed of all your race, that excitement is the chief source of happiness."

"It is not mine," rejoined Peregrine, "and you will give me credit, before you have known me very long, for seeking happiness wherever it is to be found -- whether in excitement or repose -- action or indolence; now this morning I am all for the indolence, and if my heart does not very much deceive me, I am destined to find happiness in that."

"Oh! you are a philosopher, are you?" asked Julia, archly, fixing her fine eyes on Peregrine as she spoke.

"No one less so," returned Peregrine. "I am quite without theories, and I believe it is for this very reason that the world and I agree so well together. We never rub against one another, because I have no protruding system to stop my progress and entangle me as I walk along the highways of the world. A system is as great an encumbrance to a man as a broad-brimmed hat in a thicket -- it's sure always to be catching in the boughs and branches, and stopping your progress most wofully at every step -- no, no! no philosophies for me.".

"Well," said Julia, "now I know you, I think, and I dare say we shall get on well together. Can you sing?"

"A very little," replied Peregrine.

"And draw?"

"A very little," was the answer.

"Ah! that's modesty. Well, well; I shall soon have an opportunity of judging. You can talk, I know, so sit down on the sofa, whilst I get ready my work, and tell me all about yourself."

"That's very easily told," returned Peregrine. "I was in England -- here I am -- a jolly cadet -- and your cousin. But I want to hear something about you."

"What about me?" asked Julia.

"Oh! -- when you came out -- what you think of India -- who are your particular friends, and a few little things of that sort."

"Oh! very well, Peregrine, this worsted-work is not so very absorbing."

"It is very pretty though," interrupted Peregrine. "I think I will sit by you -- may I sit close by you, Julia?"'

"Wherever you please," returned the pretty cousin.

"Thank you, Julia; now tell me, please, when you came out to India."

"Last cold weather," returned Julia. "I don't know how it was that we never met one another in England. I suppose you were always at Addiscombe, when I was staying at London. You know I was living with my grandmamma Poggleton, so did not see much of your family."

"It was a great loss to us," observed Peregrine.

"There now, you are satirical," exclaimed Julia. "I won't tell you any thing now."

"Upon my word, I meant what I said. I did really," remonstrated Peregrine. "I am not at all satirical -- pray, don't be angry -- there now, let us be friends" -- and Peregrine Pultuney, with that modest assurance for which he was so celebrated, imprinted a kiss on the fair cheek of his cousin.

This little act of gallantry being soon forgiven, peace was restored, and Peregrine once again having given his word that he was not satirical, Julia promised to believe him, and the stream of conversation flowed on as tranquilly as ever.

"I don't quite know," said Julia, in reply to a question from Peregrine, as to what she thought of Calcutta society, "I don't quite know what to tell you. It is not to my taste certainly, but then, to be sure, I am no judge. I saw a little of English society before I came out, quite enough to perceive the contrast."

"Then you are a judge," interrupted Peregrine.

"Oh! no; I don't profess to be that -- you are welcome to my opinions, though they are not worth very much. They are a strange set of people here, and do nothing all the day but write chits and abuse one another."

"Why; that they do in all places," said Peregrine.

"What? -- abuse one another -- so they do; but of all places that I ever visited Calcutta is the most scandalous. In other parts of the world they talk about things, here they talk about people. The conversation is all personal, and, as such, you may be sure tolerably abusive."

"But -what?" asked Peregrine, "do the people find to say about one another?"

"Oh!" returned Miss Poggleton; "the veriest trifles in the world. Nothing is so insignificant as the staple of Calcutta conversation. What Mr. This said to Miss That, and what Miss That did to Mr. This; and then all the interminable gossip about marriages and no-marriages, and will-be marriages and ought-to-be marriages -- and gentlemen's attention and ladies' flirtings, dress, re-unions, and the last burra-khana -- "

"Pictures, taste, Shakspeare, and the musical glasses," suggested Peregrine, with a smile.

"Oh! dear no, nothing half as good as that," returned Julia Poggleton; "the only Shakspeare known in Calcutta is a high civilian of that name -- a Sudder judge, or something of the sort. As for 'taste' I'm afraid there is none in Calcutta, and the only pictures we know any thing about, are annual-prints and our own portraits, which we sometimes send to Europe to show our friends what kind of an animal an old Indian is. I say 'we' for I quite think myself one of the genus, having been born and partly bred here. I feel myself thorough qui hi, and am getting as bad as the worst of them."

"I don't believe that," remarked Peregrine.

"Oh! I assure you I am," continued the vivacious young lady. "I fall into the evil way at the very time when I am most strenuously reprobating it. Nobody can more thoroughly deplore the sad waste of time that characterizes life in India, and yet I am as wasteful myself as any body -- write as many chits and do as little."

"And what of this chit-writing?" asked Peregrine.

"It is a habit," returned Miss Poggleton, "that we all get into -- we women worse than you men. I have a friend who declares that she very often fires off five-and-twenty in a day. Why, you see, we cannot be always running backwards and forwards from house to house as intimate neighbours do in England, neither can we send verbal messages, so we fire off these little scraps of paper, rough, unsealed, often quite open, -- that we should be ashamed of sending in England -- our messengers cannot read them, you know, so we do not care how open they are."

"But what are they all about?" asked Peregrine.

"Oh! most unreasonable of men," cried Julia Poggleton, laying down her work as she spoke, and looking archly into Peregrine's face. "How can you expect me to answer a question that might puzzle an Oedipus to solve. Papa says there are three things of which you must never ask the contents, a subaltern's bungalow, a lady's chit, and a governor-general's cranium. He says that there's no knowing which has got the least in it, and I suppose he is tolerably right."

"But they must have something to write about, however trifling," urged Peregrine.

"Oh! we make subjects," returned Julia Poggleton; "a regular chit-writer will fire off half-a-dozen, three corners in the day about a matter, which a sensible person would not bestow as many words on in conversation. A young lady, whom I know very well, tried very hard to get up a morning correspondence with me, but as I soon found that she sent me off a chit for every visiter that called at the house, and I was expected to say something in return, I was obliged to drop the correspondence. I sent 'salaam' half-a-dozen times, and my friend very soon left off troubling me."

"But still you say that you write a good many."

"Between you and me," said Julia -- "I am obliged. Mamma, I suspect, has been a great chit-writer in her day; and now, though she has grown a little indolent, she still likes the excitement of it, and so transfers the trouble of it to me. I cannot tell you how I hate it, but I am very amiable, and so of course I comply."

"I think you must be very amiable, indeed," said Peregrine. "Do you go out much in society?"

"Oh! a great deal; I am obliged, and just now there is nothing on the tapis, but great dinner-parties. You cannot conceive how tired one gets of the hams, and turkeys, and limp jellies. A turkey and a ham are as necessary to a Calcutta dinner as a table-cloth and chairs; and such a profusion too always! -- a very hecatomb under a punkah -- every thing too so cold!"

"Cold!" exclaimed Peregrine; "that is a fault I should scarcely have expected to hear mentioned."

"Oh! but I am right I assure you. It may seem strange, but though a dinner party is a very hot thing, the dinner is sure to be cold. In the first place the kitchens, or cook-rooms as we call them here, are often a long way from the house -- at the further end of the compound -- and then if the passage through the open air does not cool the dishes thoroughly, the air from the punkah does. Not that I ever care whether it is cold or hot, but you ask me about Indian society, and I am aware what an important item dinner is in all social categories; for my own part, the person who sits next to me is every thing, but one is so rarely fortunate in that respect"

"Are you often condemned to a bore?" asked Peregrine, who had somehow or other contrived to get one of his cousin's little hands into his, to the manifest detriment of the worsted work.

"Not oftener than my neighbours I suppose," replied Julia; "but it seems to me very often. I think that the young men here are more emptyheaded even than in England, and I often sigh for a respectable old white head to sit beside me and talk sense at dinner-time. But we spinsters, as a matter of course, always fall to the bachelors; and they are so laboriously disagreeable. There is no theatre, no opera to talk about; not that I admire such subjects as these, but they are fifty times better than Indian subjects. I was asked two or three hundred times at least during my first fortnight, 'how I liked India.' I was so tired of answering that I was 'scarcely qualified to form an opinion,' I would have given the world for a fresh answer. And then we young ladies, to say the least of it, are in a very disagreeable situation here -- our position is constrained and artificial -- I dare say you know what I mean. It is the vulgar opinion that every unmarried female in India has but one wish burning in her heart, the wish to make a good marriage; and we can scarcely move, speak, or act, according to the natural impulses of our hearts, for fear it should be said of us that we are laying traps, or making overtures, or something of this kind. And the constant watch we are obliged to set over our actions in consequence is, I can assure you, distressing in the extreme."

"But surely," said Peregrine, "this being your natural home, you ought not to be classed amongst the adventuresses."

"I ought not, I know, but still am," returned Julia: "an Indian spinster is an Indian spinster, whatever her position may be. I am used to it now; but when first I came out I was constantly making mistakes; the English licences I took astonished my father and mother, nay, even my very acquaintance. A few nights after I arrived here; I was at a ball at the Town Hall, and there was a Mr. Darlington there -- a civilian -- whom I had met very often in England, as he was staying, during Christmas time, at my grandmamma Poggleton's, and so of course we got very intimate. He is a very nice man, but I must tell you, Peregrine, that I should as soon think of marrying the Archbishop of Canterburry or the Pope of Rome, as I should him; and whilst he was sitting by me, between the quadrilles, I saw a young ensign of a king's regiment, who had come out in the ship with me, and whom I particularly disliked, making his way towards me to ask, for the third time of asking, whether I was still engaged for so many dances. I was not engaged for more than two, and so seeing my dilemma, I said to Mr. Darlington, 'Pray let me say I'm engaged to you for the third,' and will you believe it, he quite stared at me. I asked him what was the matter, and he said he thought he had danced with me once. 'Oh!' said I, somewhat offended, 'and once is enough -- is it?' Upon which he smiled, and said that he supposed I was not yet initiated into the mysteries of Calcutta etiquette; for that no lady ever danced with a gentleman more than once in the course of the evening unless he was going to be married to her. I looked very foolish of course, but never made such a blunder again, and was condemned to dance with the ensign."

"Was ever any thing so absurd?" exclaimed Peregrine.

"Oh yes, a great number of things," returned Julia, "far more absurd than that. As it is supposed that every lady who comes to the country is on matrimonial thoughts intent, it is the study of some people's lives to make imaginary matches, and to propagate reports of them as though they were real. I have been eight months in the country, and have been given to as many gentlemen at least."

"And all these reports utterly without foundation?" asked Peregrine, squeezing the little hand that he held.

"Utterly," returned Julia, blushing slightly, as Peregrine thought; "utterly, as far as I have been concerned; and it is so very awkward sometimes," she continued, smiling, "for one is doomed, perhaps, to meet the very person in the afternoon that one has been assigned to in the morning; and it is not to be supposed that these reports reach the lady without reaching the gentleman too."

"You say, Julia," rejoined Peregrine, "that all these reports have been utterly groundless as far as you are concerned: do you mean that they have not been so, as far as others are concerned. Have you been very cruel to my sex?"

Peregrine accompanied this last question with another squeeze of the hand, and he looked into his cousin's eyes as he spoke. She was blushing deeply, and, becoming conscious of his gaze, she looked down at her worsted-work to conceal her emotion from her companion. Peregrine knew what the blush indicated -- she had been wooed and not won, and he was glad of it; though had any body asked him why, he most probably could not have answered the question.

There was a silence -- both parties were embarrassed. Peregrine, bold, nay, almost impudent as he was, was not without delicacy of feeling. He felt that he should not have asked the question, and was sorry for his silly imprudence. He was going to say something, when Mrs. Poggleton made her appearance from behind one of the silk curtains, which were officiating for doors at the further end of the room. At any other time he would have looked upon her appearance as a most insufferable bore; but now he felt quite glad to see her, and instantly walked forward to wish her a good morning.

"Good morning, Peregrine; pretty well thank you," said Mrs. Poggleton in reply to the inquiries of her nephew. "Very hot though -- isn't it suffocating? Julia, my dear, I want you to write to Mrs. Parkinson about her chicken-man, you know; and when you have done that you must write to Mrs. Templemore, and ask her how her little boy is -- a nasty little wretch as I ever -- but we must be civil, you know; and then only think -- dear me! how business does accumulate to be sure; you must write to Mr. Loveapple about those silks from the factory; and then let me see -- how close it is! -- how I do hate this nasty steamy weather -- you must -- why, perhaps, when you have done that, we will go to Tulloh's about that investment -- and -- how tired I am -- go and call upon the bride."

"Very well, dear mamma," replied Julia, goodnaturedly; and the blotting-book was immediately opened. Peregrine thought that he had never seen a disagreeable occupation set about with a better grace in his life.

Arid so with chit-writing, and reading, and looking at the investment -- for the visit to "the bride" was postponed -- the morning was killed with tolerable rapidity. Peregrine could not help observing that, though his aunt was eternally complaining of the heat and the fatigue and her bodily weakness, she went through, in the course of the day, a surprising deal of self-imposed labour. The truth is, that Mrs. Poggleton's body was very much stronger than her mind; and the notion she entertained to the contrary was one of the most fallacious ever known. But it is a remarkable fact that, whilst people are ignorant of their real defects, they are very prone to harp on imaginary ones, which we can only account for by surmising that they are conscious of a defect somewhere, but that like the fox with his wound, they do not precisely know where it is.

The morning having been killed very satisfactorily, if not to all parties, to some, tiffin was announced, which said tiffin was in fact a substantial dinner, and Peregrine was surprised to see that both his aunt and his cousin made a considerably hearty meal, which they washed down with something better than a pint of malt liquor a-head; having done which, they repaired to their several apartments to do what is commonly called "lie down," or in other words to sleep off the effects of the boa-constrictor meal they had been making.

Peregrine seized a book and, following the example of his aunt and his cousin, made off>«to his room too. There he threw himself on the bed, read three or four pages, laid down the book to think of Julia Poggleton, and in five minutes fell fast asleep.

He was dreaming most delightfully that he was a field-officer, with Julia for his wife, and five or six little responsibilities, when Gunga Ram, sirdar, came into the room, and having woke his master with three or four repetitions of the word "sahib," each one a little louder than the last, informed him, rather by signs than by words, that it was time for him to get up and adorn, for the Mem-sahib had ordered the carriage, as it had left off raining, to go out for a drive on the course.

Peregrine was not long about performing his toilet, and had dressed himself in very good time* He met Julia in the passage, attired for her evening drive, and looking so pretty that Peregrine would certainly have given her a kiss, if there had not been two or three stupid servants sticking their carcasses most provokingly in the way. Those servants, I may here take occasion to mention, are always in the way at such seasons as this, they come sneaking in so noiselessly, with their bare feet, and perhaps surprise you in some little .innocent act of playfulness, to which a third party can be of no possible assistance. Indian houses too are so large and open, and to shut the door is so suspicious a thing, that, of all places in the world, they are the least adapted for the exercise of a playful disposition like Peregrine's, for courtship in its more advanced stages, or the innocent freedoms, in which new-married people are so much in the habit of indulging. It must be acknowledged, however, that after a little while, one is wont to get wondrously indifferent to the presence of these black automata, and after a few months one learns to think of them no more than of the chairs and the tables. And they cannot understand a word that one says -- there is prodigious comfort in that.

Having delivered ourselves of these very sage observations, we must inform our readers, that Mrs. and. Miss Poggleton and Peregrine Pultuney have driven off, whilst we have been moralizing, in the barouche, and have already nearly reached the course or grand mall of Calcutta, where people drive up and down in search of the air, at the imminent peril of their carriage panels and their lives -- bob their heads like chimney-piece mandarins, and talk about one another's caps and bonnets.

Passing in front of Government-house, the Townhall and the Supreme Court, Peregrine found himself whirling down towards the river, with his back towards the horses of course; and the first thing that struck his attention was a great accumulation of empty palankin-carriages, standing at the corner of "the course." The course is nothing more than a road, which runs along the banks of the river and is railed off from the great plain on the other side. Leading to this road is another one, which runs past the Government-house almost at right angles with the course, and it was at the junction of these two roads that Peregrine saw the empty palankin-carriages and a great collection of syces standing by them. It was some time before Peregrine could make out what all the empty carriages were standing there for, and he was just beginning to think of the hackney stands in London, and to suppose these were something of the kind, when his eye fell upon a prodigious quantity of nursery-folk, sporting about the plain, with a swarm of black nurses and chuprasies very sedulously attending to the baba-logue. These children were of all ages, from the baby in arms to the big boy of six or seven, and were in fact the rising generation of Calcutta -- embryo generals and members of council. Peregrine thought that they were very unlike English children, for they were very pale and sickly-looking; but nevertheless they ran about with considerable energy, and their little white faces formed a remarkable contrast to the activity with which they sported on the grass and played with their turbaned attendants. They were, in fact, every bit as boisterous as if they had had cheeks like peaches, instead of like table-cloths, and Peregrine could not help thinking what a happy thing it was to be a three-year-old.

Passing the congregation of empty carriages, the barouche swept round the corner, and Peregrine found himself on "the course," in the midst of carriages and horsemen. It would be difficult to specify any kind of vehicle that there was not in this motley collection. Barouches, britchtzkas, landaulets, phaetons, poney-phaetons, curricles, coaches, buggies (anglicé cabs), and palki-gharres of all sizes and descriptions, were thronging and jostling along the road, like a cavalcade from Epsom-races. Nor were the people in them of a less multiform aspect; all shades of colour were to be seen exhibiting themselves, from the milk-white complexion of the delicate European to the copper-coloured hue of the genuine Asiatic. There were white faces, and yellow faces, and cream-coloured faces, and drab faces, and brown faces, and black faces -- English, Portuguese, Anglo-Indian, Armenian, Arab, Parsee and Bengalee faces. There was the elegant fine lady from Chowringhee, languishing and lounging in her capacious barouche, and lack-a-daysically nodding to her favoured acquaintance; the staff-officer with his laced cap and blue surtout, driving his stylish double-bodied phaeton; the wealthy native with his fat person in the old fashioned coach with a very smart coachman. on the box, and two or three silver-stick-bearers behind, sitting or clinging lazily to the foot-board; the young civilian in his new Stewart's buggy and the very first heat of his griffinage; the Portuguese or East Indian family with four or five brunette girls in outrageously bright-colonred dresses, huddled up in the open landau; a great number of ditto ditto in palankin-carriages; a few Armenians in one-horse phaetons, and Parsees with conical turbans in landaulets, completed the motley assemblage, to enhance the variety of which, a mercantile gentleman was dashing up and down with a regular drag and four, whilst a king's officer from the fort was doing tandem very strenuously, with a couple of the most preposterously vicious bay mares that ever put a man's neck in jeopardy.

Keeping to one side of the road, so as not to be driven over or poled to death, was a long string of gentlemen on horseback with two or three ladies in the line. Peregrine observed that these ladies were most thickly cavaliered, two or three deep, for several rows of riders, and that the favoured gentlemen, who managed to get on either side of the fair equestrians, were invariably gentlemen in plain coats and white trousers, whilst the militaires were always in the rear, trying vainly to edge in a word or two. There were a great number of red jacketed gentlemen on white horses in the string of riders, who went at a brisker pace than the rest, and seemed to keep very much to themselves, and to take no notice of their neighbours. These were mostly king's officers -- the lady-hunters being griffs, who very often think in their innocence that a red coat is the same talisman in India, that it is in England, and do not find out their mistake until after a few severe snubbings. Peregrine observed that the gentlemen in the plain clothes were much better mounted than those in uniform; and he had not much difficulty in guessing why, for it is just as much as a subaltern officer can do to contrive to mount himself at all.

Peregrine Poltuney was so taken up with his inward observations on men and manners, for which it must be confessed the scene before him supplied plentiful food, that the carriage had gone once down and once up the course before he felt disposed to open his lips, and to ask any questions about the people, who were of course all strangers to him; but when the coachman drew up his horses and slackened their pace, as seemed to be the fashion on the course after one or two brisk "turns, Peregrine took it into his head to make some inquiries about the most noticeable people that attracted his attention, and his aunt, who was very fond of personal conversation, was willing enough to give the required information.

"Well aunt," he began, "we are very silent -- who is that pretty woman in the barouche?"

"Who -- where? pretty woman?" returned Mrs. Poggleton. "Well, I never! -- you young men -- I can't see a pretty woman in a barouche."

"What, not that lady, with the black cap and the pink ribbands," said Peregrine.

"Oh! that -- a perfect fright -- a horror -- pretty woman! only think, dear me -- why that's Mrs. Aminidab Ash, and you really think she's pretty -- what a taste?"

"I do think so," remarked Peregrine, "but what is Mrs. Aminidab Ash?"

"Not pretty, certainly -- he, he!" returned Mrs. Poggleton, considerably amused at the smartness of her repartee. "She's an agent's wife -- he, he -- and they say that whenever she quarrels with her husband, and that's pretty often -- he, he! she goes and takes her passage to England -- and he has to pay forfeit -- he, he! A lakh at least she has cost him in this way -- a very expensive shocq (taste)."

Peregrine did not in the least know what a shocq was, neither did he take the trouble to inquire, for his attention was attracted by another lady in a barouche, who bowed to Mrs. Poggleton, as she passed.

"Who is that pretty woman?" asked Peregrine -- "come you must agree with me this time."

"Oh! that -- well you think that she is pretty," returned Mrs. Poggleton, nodding her head to a gentleman who passed the carriage, "some people do-think so, to be sure."

"And you amongst them, I know, mamma," interrupted Julia, "I have heard you acknowledge it before now."

"Well then -- she is pretty well, my dear. I don't think that I said she is a beauty -- only think! -- a beauty! dear me -- why that's Mrs. Jupiter Grand; her husband's a very clever young man -- a monstrous clever young man, they tell me -- they're particular friends of mine -- particular -- but here comes a great favourite -- Mr. Splashington, how do you do?"

The individual thus addressed was a young gentleman on horseback, dressed with considerable nicety and taste, and displaying a pair of the most unexceptionable slate-coloured kid gloves, which Peregrine thought were not the best adapted for riding in hot weather, but which nevertheless, being rarities in Calcutta, where the majority of men are somewhat given to slovenliness, gave him a favourable impression of the wearer. He reined up his horse, by the side of the carriage, with a somewhat Parisian bow to the ladies -- and glanced at Peregrine Pultuney inquiringly.

"My nephew, Mr. Pultuney of the -- Artillery -- yes -- Mr. Splashington allow me to introduce -- "

"What! Peregrine Pultuney!" exclaimed Mr. Splashington, "my dear friend, I am charmé to see you. But, perhaps, you have forgotten Frederick Splashington. It is so long since you knew me at Dr. Radix's."

Peregrine assured Mr. Splashington, that he had not forgotten him, and held out his hand, over the side of the carriage, very cordially to his old schoolfellow, whilst Mrs. Poggleton ejaculated several times -- "dear me, only think how funny!"

The little recognition being over, Mr. Splashington turned his attention towards Julia, and in a soft, but as Peregrine thought a somewhat affected, empressé manner, began talking to her about music and "practising."

"I must try that duet with you -- I must, indeed -- I will call to-morrow, ah! of course I must, to see my old school-fellow there -- and we will try it. I wish, Miss Poggleton, I could get you to try Italian, you would never sing your English ballads again."

"Really, Mr. Splashington, I don't think so," returned Julia, shaking her head.

"Oh! you must try it -- positivement you must.

I will send you O Mio Caro. It will suit your voice, and I'm sure you will be charmed with it. Will you let me send it to you, Miss Poggleton?"

"You may send it certainly," replied Julia, "but I really cannot promise to try it. I like my simple ballads so much better, I do indeed, Mr. Splashington."

"Oh! la petite Anglaise!" ejaculated Mr. Splashington. "We must really cure you of that. If you had been so much in Italy as I have, you would never cling to your barbarous island music; you never would, I assure you, Miss Poggleton."

"I am very glad that I have not then," returned Julia Poggleton, "for I am sure I derive more pleasure from my simple ballad music than from all the flourishing Italian in the world."

"Ah! well -- then I may call to-morrow -- and we will try the Last Links together. Mrs. Poggleton, you will have your doors open, if I venture out to call on you to-morrow."

"Oh! certainly, Mr. Splashington -- how can you ask -- only think to have my doors shut to you!"

"Then you shall see me -- and you, Pultuney, too -- I shall be so glad to renew our acquaintance. Are you to be at Mrs. Parkinson's to-night? You did not say no, Miss Poggleton -- Helas! You really are not -- how cruel! Have you seen the Miss Gowanspecs yet? fine girls -- but countrified, very -- not distinguées -- not recherchcées in the least -- au revoir. I must go and join Mrs. Learnedpig Prince -- do you think I shall ever make my way through that throng of cavaliers to her side?"

"If your horse kicks well, you may," suggested Peregrine.

"Adieu -- adieu!" said Mr. Splashington, and he trotted up to Mrs. Learnedpig Prince, who was riding on horseback, with a swarm of gentlemen around her.

Mr. Splashington's place beside the carriage was soon filled by a tall, slim gentleman in the artillery uniform, whom Mrs. Poggleton called Mr. Clay.

"Ah! Mr. Clay -- I've been wanting to see you -- you promised to write something for my Album; but you men are such -- only think -- you might do it so easily too -- a few lines and a water-colour drawing."

"I shall be too happy," replied Mr. Clay.

"So you always say -- but you young men -- what's that, Julia, my dear, they say promises are like -- chuppatties, isn't it -- well I never. Mr. Clay, this is my nephew -- he is come out to join your what d'you call it -- to be an artillery officer."

"I'm very glad to hear it," said Mr. Clay, looking approvingly at Peregrine Pultuney, and thinking to himself that the young gentleman would be an excellent addition to any corps. "When are you going to join?"

"In a day or two," said Peregrine Pultuney.

"I shall be very glad to see you at my bungalow. I return the day after to-morrow."

"The day after to-morrow -- dear me!" said Mrs. Poggleton; "you must come and dine with us before you go -- let me see -- will you come to-morrow?

"I am very sorry to say I am engaged; but you may rely upon seeing me in the morning, and if I can make the verses for you -- good evening -- good evening, Miss Poggleton."

"Well, I'm glad he can't come," said Mrs. Poggleton, very fervently, when the artillery officer had ridden off.

"Why, I thought you liked him, mamma," suggested Julia.

"So I do, my dear; but, Peregrine, that brother officer of yours -- that Mr. Clay -- he writes novels and things -- and I'm always afraid that he's watching me -- to bring me into a novel -- only think, to be brought into a novel -- only think, dear me!"

"You need not be afraid, mamma," suggested Julia; "Mr. Clay is a great deal too good-natured to write any thing to hurt you."

"Well, I don't know, but it's getting very dark. Coachwaun goomou -- goomou. Peregrine, I wish you'd tell the coachman to turn round."

"Turn round, coachman," cried Peregrine.

"Oh! you griff," said Julia, laughing -- "goomou, coachwaun, goomou," -- and the coachman goomoued accordingly, and the party soon reached home.

CHAPTER IX.

Containing some further Illustrations of Society in Calcutta; and some Account of a Lady's Album.

"Well," said Peregrine, on the following morning, after breakfast, when Mr. Poggleton having taken his departure for "the Board," the two young people were again left together, "so Frederick Splashington is coming to see us, this morning -- and that -- what's his name? -- of my honourable regiment."

"Mr. Clay," replied Julia; "you must make his acquaintance. Mr. Splashington you know very well. It was singular that you should have met in that way -- he is such a prime favourite of mamma's."

"And of yours too, Julia, I suppose," observed Peregrine, as he smuggled his cousin's hand into his, and looked significantly into her face.

"Yes, I think he is," said Miss Poggleton, "rather. He is very gentlemanly and very agreeable, and he is never at all dull as a companion. He has lived a great deal on the continent, and there is something rather foreign, and as people think, affected -- effeminate in his manners. But it is so rare a thing here, Peregrine, to find a man with anj manners at all, that it would be very ungrateful to find fault with Mr. Splashington, for having a little too much. He has been in very good society -- you can easily see that -- and is the completest lady's man in India. He sings very nicely, though, perhaps, with rather too many airs and graces, and altogether is one of the pleasantest men, as he certainly is one of the most gentlemanly, in the City of Palaces."

"And you are a great favourite of his," remarked Peregrine, "if I may judge by his manner towards you."

"Ah! there you are mistaken," returned Julia, "though I do not in the least wonder at your mistake. His manner to all girls is the same -- empressé in the highest degree. I know him a great deal too well ever to think that there is any thing marked in it; though I should not wonder if some less experienced damsels were to take it into their heads, that he is in love with them -- his manner, as he would say himself, is always tout amoureux."

"He is in the civil service, isn't he?' asked Peregrine.

"Yes;" returned Julia, "what is called 'in college.' He has not been in India more than a year; and is considerably younger, I believe, than he looks. He is very well known and generally liked in society -- a great acquisition to a dinner-party, a ball, or a pic-nic."

"A pic-nic," interrupted Peregrine, "you don't mean to say, do you, that people go pic-nic-ing here?"

"Oh! yes, we do," returned Julia, "very often in the cold weather, and very agreeable parties they are. We go in boats to the Botanical Gardens, or up the river to Barrackpore, lionize the Iron Foundry, or Mrs. Wilson's school, and come back again by moonlight."

"And Splashington shines at these parties?"

"Oh! yes; and at every other. He is rather sentimental sometimes and certainly talks very well. He has a great deal of refinement -- of feeling as well as of manner, and as I always know perfectly that he means nothing, I am sometimes, on such occasions as these, very glad to have him for a companion."

Peregrine did not know very well what to make of this; but he did not particularly like it. He felt a few twinges of jealousy, but they were very unnecessary indeed, and could he have looked into Julia's heart at that moment, he would not have been so absurd.

Morning visitors in India are really morning visitors -- in England they are called so because they do not go out till the afternoon. From eleven till two are the hours apportioned to the laborious insipidity of these persecuting people -- a plague worse than the locusts or the frogs; and as, after that time, ladies rarely do any thing but lie down in their dressing-gowns, scold their ayahs, and powder their faces and necks, the day in India is literally killed outright by those who have an extensive acquaintance, and are hardy enough to keep their gates open. It is a legitimate thing in India to close your gates, and for your durwan to say "durtcazah bund" (or the "gates are closed"), yet, in spite of this, many people prefer telling a lie about it, and order their servants to say that the mem-sahib (lady) has gone out, when in reality she is snug in her own drawing-room, with perhaps some particularly dear friend who has come to spend the day with her, and of course has no wish at all to be disturbed. But, perhaps, after all, they are right; for what a very stupid place this world would be, if every body adhered to the truth -- lies being very properly regarded as the cayenne-pepper of life.

And about half-past eleven, Mrs. Poggleton's gong was sounded, and "E-splakinton sahib" was duly announced. Natives never can say our English names, however vehemently they may endeavour to do it, and an initial S, followed by a consonant, is an utterly insurmountable difficulty. "E-splakinton sahib," meant Mr. Splashington, and a very near approach too for a native.

So the gentleman in question made his appearance, and was of course "delighted" to see both Julia Poggleton and Peregrine Pultuney -- inquired most tenderly after Mrs. Poggleton, and in a few minutes had the satisfaction of shaking that lady by the hand.

The first salutations being over, Mrs. Poggleton began incontinently to button-hole her visiter -- question followed upon question about the news -- Mr. That -- Miss This -- and Mrs. Somebody -- all of which Mr. Splashington answered, as Peregrine thought, with a vast deal of patience, and a degree of readiness, which gave him the highest opinion of his old schoolfellow's personal information.

"And the dinner, Mr. Splashington -- only think! that Mrs. Parkinson showing off her nieces! -- Was it a burrakhana, eh! Mr. Splashington?"

"Prodigieux" returned Mr. Splashington, "I think between thirty and forty; perhaps even more than that; but without Mrs. and Miss Poggleton to me but a blank -- a desert."

"He -- he -- you young men," returned Mrs. Poggleton, "are such, only think! such flatterers. Forty or fifty people there -- dear me! they couldn't ask Julia you know, 'twould have spoilt it all -- only think."

"Dear mamma," cried Julia, "why should I have spoilt it all?"

"I must not tell you, my dear -- he, he! Were there any young ladies there, Mr. Splashington, besides those two odious Miss Gowanspecs? Not one -- only think, dear me! I thought as much -- not one -- all married ladies and marriageable gentlemen -- he! he! he!"

Mrs. Poggleton was so very much delighted with the acuteness evinced by herself in this sally, that it was some time before she could recover herself sufficiently to ask of whom Mrs. Parkinson's dinner had consisted.

"Thirty or forty," she tittered, "only think -- and all eligibles I suppose -- he! he! he! -- No spinsters -- I thought as much -- dear me! and who were they all? only think! Forty or fifty married ladies and marriageable gentlemen together -- pray tell me now who they were."

"Sir Edward Tryem," began Mr. Splashington.

"And Lady Tryem -- burra beebee, I suppose," interrupted Mrs. Poggleton eagerly.

"Pardonnez" returned Mr. Splashington. "Sir Edward came en garçon, Lady Tryem being slightly indisposed, and Mr. and Mrs. Milton, and Mr. Sharp, and the Pushpins, and Colonel Fenetre, and the Learnedpig Princes, and Sir Charles and Lady Daubly -- et plusieurs autres. I hardly remember them all, but a host of Pilgrims, I know, and two or three Sekunders, and Proteus, and Dr. John Grantham, and James Bacon, and several célibitaires like myself."

"And the burra beebee?" asked Mrs. Poggleton, again.

"I beg your pardon, indeed -- Lady Daubly -- and Sir Edward Tryem of course, the burra sahib."

"And did she keep you a long time after dinner?" asked Mrs. Poggleton -- "he! he! some ladies do -- dear me! at home I declare, it's quite fatiguing -- I often do long to give the move."

It was just at this interesting epoch in the conversation that Peregrine Pultuney, who had been listening attentively, in hopes of increasing his knowledge of Indian society, became fairly gravelled in his attempt to keep up with the speakers; for, do what he would, his comprehension of the matters discussed was left considerably in the rear of the discussion. In this emergency he betook himself to the fair preceptress who had instructed him upon the preceding morning, and begged her to tell him what a burra beebee was, and why a lady was not allowed to make the move at her own table.

"You must not ask me why," returned Julia Poggleton, whilst the conversation was proceeding very strenuously between her mother and Frederick Splashington. "You must not ever ask me the why of any thing connected with Calcutta society. I can only tell you how things arc -- the reasons for their being so I could never find out, and so I suppose that there are none. The burra beebee is the great lady -- whoever is handed to dinner by the master of the house is the burra beebee for the occasion."

"Oh! I understand," observed Peregrine.

"I don't think that you do quite yet," returned Julia, smiling -- "a burra beebee is a much more important person in India than she is in England. Here she gives the after-dinner nod to the lady of the house, instead of the lady of the house to her; and here it is considered a solecism in manners to leave the house before the burra beebee is pleased to give the signal by taking her departure and dissolving the party. Why it should be so, I do not know in the least, but I do know that it is very disagreeable when the burra beebee is rakishly inclined."

"I can easily imagine that," replied Peregrine; "but there goes your -- what is it? -- again."

"Gong," suggested Julia Poggleton.

"Ah! true" said Peregrine "gong -- I shall get these words in time. I suppose it's that brother officer of mine, Mr. Clay, isn't, Julia?"

Julia glanced at the card that was put into her hand, and gave an answer in the affirmative. Mr. Clay presently appeared and shook hands with all the party. The conversation then became general, that is to say every body joined in it, but it still continued to be of a personal nature. Mr. Clay talked a good deal at first, told Mrs. Poggleton two or three little stories, which made that lady laugh considerably, and then leaving a clear field to Mr. Splashington, turned round and addressed Peregrine.

"You are going to Dum-Dum, I think you said, in a day or two," he observed. "Can I be of any use to you?"

"Why, thank you," returned Peregrine, "I think you could, if you would kindly tell me what I ought to do."

"You have only to report yourself," said Mr. Clay, "and then you can get leave 'till muster."

"When is that?" asked Peregrine Pultuney.

Mr. Clay smiled and said, "You will soon know that but too well by experience. Muster-day is on the first day of the month, on which, as the name tells you, the regiment is mustered."

"Oh! that's it -- very good," returned Peregrine. "I have reported myself already."

"To whom?" asked Mr. Clay.

"To the town-major," replied Peregrine.

"Oh! but you must report yourself to the commandant of the regiment, and from him you must get leave."

"Thank you," returned Peregrine, "I will -- and on what day would it be better to go?"

"All days are the same for that," said Mr. Clay, "but Wednesday is the best for seeing the officers of the regiment, as it is public night at the mess, and of course there is a strong assemblage. If you will come down in the morning I will take you to the brigadier's and introduce you at the mess afterwards."

"Thank you," replied Peregrine, "you are very kind. Pray, how goes promotion in the regiment?"

"At tortoise pace," returned Mr. Clay -- "the slowest of the most slow -- I hope you have a good stock of patience to carry you on for years."

"Pretty good," returned Peregrine.

"Pretty good will not do," rejoined the artillery officer; "you must have a patience that will support you for ten years, without a prospect of advancement in the world -- a sanguine temperament that will enable you to hope on utterly against hope -- a flow of spirits, which the constant recollection of your stagnant life avails not to quench -- a fortitude, a power of self-denial, that will keep you, in spite of your poverty, free from the heaviest of human curses -- debt. If you have all these things in the highest -- in an almost demi-god-like perfection, you are fit to be an artillery officer; but if not, you had better have hanged yourself than entered our honourable corps."

Though Mr. Clay said all this jestingly, in a manner that was evidently intended to convey to his hearer that he was not in earnest, Peregrine thought that he could detect a bitterness of tone in his voice, which told that the words he was uttering were not wholly destitute of truth -- his earnestness not altogether an assumption of a light, jesting spirit of irony. There was more reality in his manner than he intended to betray, and Peregrine Pultuney, who was an acute observer, did not suffer the manifestation to escape him. He pretended, however, to receive it as a jest, and said laughingly, "Well; you do not describe my prospects as very cheering."

"It would be folly in me to attempt to do so," said Mr. Clay, "for your eyes would be soon opened, and you would see the deceit that had been practised upon you -- the first army list you open will show you a string of six-and-thirty supernumerary second-lieutenants -- on a moderate calculation it will take four years to absorb this fearful list of unfortunates -- and six more before you get your promotion. Can your patience hold out for that!"

"Oh! yes," said Peregrine "I dare say it will; for although our promotion is so much slower than in the line, our pay you know is so much better."

"Nay," returned the artillery officer, smiling at Peregrine's ignorance, "you were never more mistaken in your life. When you get to Dum-Dum, you will find yourself drawing considerably less pay than your contemporaries in the infantry at Barrackpore."

"You cannot mean that," exclaimed Peregrine, "for if we get less pay and slower promotion, what on earth are the advantages of the artillery, for which we work like galley-slaves at Addiscombe?"

"I really cannot tell you," said Mr. Clay; "as I was never astute enough to discover them."

"Come," returned Peregrine "I think you must be hoaxing me, or, like the Irishman, I have gained a loss."

"That's precisely it" rejoined Mr. Clay, "you have been hoaxed, not by me, but by the Company, and have' gained a loss' beyond a shadow of doubt."

"Well," said Peregrine, "then all I have got to say is that I have been most atrociously duped; for we certainly are taught at Addiscombe, that an artillery appointment is a monstrous fine thing to obtain -- they are held out as rewards for industry and attainments, and when we arrive here we find that they are punishments. That's justice certainly, Mr. Clay, but what can one expect from a company, who put their alumni into old clothes, which ought to be sent to Monmouth-street; and expect them to behave like officers, when they are being treated like a parcel of children."

"Nay, now you are a little too severe," said the lieutenant; "the case is not quite so bad as that, for there is no punishment in being an artillery officer, though I must confess that what the nature of the reward is, I have never been able to discover."

"Why," rejoined Peregrine, "you have shown me two very palpable disadvantages in it -- slow promotion and bad pay, but have shown me nothing to counterbalance these evils."

"Nor have I anything, perhaps, to show that you will recognise as a counterbalancing good; the evils are positive, though I hope that one at least of them will soon be remedied. We have memorialized the court for full tentage, which is drawn by the Barrackpore officers, and the injustice we are labouring under is so apparent, that I have little fear for the success of our memorial. Still the slowness of our promotion will remain like a millstone around our necks; and if you ask me what tangible advantages we enjoy as a set-off against this, I must answer 'positively nothing;' but still I doubt whether there is an artillery officer in the service, who would exchange into the infantry to purchase five years' promotion by the change."

"And, pray, how is that?" asked Peregrine -- "esprit de corps do you call it?"

"Why," returned Mr. Clay, "from the very nature of our appointments we are, as it were, a select body. Next to the Engineers, our regiment contains 'the flower' -- the picked officers of the army. Our profession, too, being scientific, is more humanizing than one that is purely a profession of arms -- our duties, though more onerous, are for the most part more congenial to the minds of educated men, than the unmixed military duties on which infantry officers are engaged -- our regiment is so extensive that we are not tied down to the constant society of the same handful of men -- there is a oneness too" -- 

"Mr. Clay, Mr. Clay," interrupted Mrs. Poggleton, "you must not forget my album. I am determined to have something of yours in it. You young men are such deceivers -- only think now, its six or seven months since you promised to do something for me. You young men -- such deceivers, dear me!"

"Upon my word," said Mr. Clay, "I'm very sorry, but I suppose I have not been inspired since then."

"Oh! never mind being inspired," returned Mrs. Poggleton; "I thought you poets could always write something -- a sonnet or an episode -- or what d'you call it? Mr. Clay, now I dare say, if the truth were known, you have nothing particular to do -- you military men are so idle."

"Well," said Mr. Clay, "I believe you are right. I have nothing very particular to do, except to devote myself to your service."

"That's right -- only think, to my service. Julia, my dear, give Mr. Clay a pen and ink. Mr. Splashington has brought something to practise with you; so tell the bearer to open the piano, and send to the durwan to have the gates shut -- dear me! -- we can't be interrupted. I am not fit for a tribe of morning visiters. Mr. Clay, there is the album -- you have seen it, I think, already -- so now write an episode or something."

Peregrine Pultuney did not know exactly what his aunt meant by an "episode;" but he admired the docility with which Mr. Clay, paper and pens having been placed before him, set to work at the fabrication of one, or something of the same genus. Mr. Splashington and Julia repaired to the piano; Mrs. Poggleton leant back in her arm-chair and delivered herself up to her reflections, whilst Peregrine dived into his aunt's album in search of amusement and instruction -- an original idea upon his part, which could only be equalled by that which might be supposed to send a man to the Swan River in search of the lost plays of Sophocles or the lost books of Livy's History of Rome.

And the first things that struck Peregrine's attention were a great number of little water and body-coloured drawings, done upon cards not much larger than visiting ones, and certainly executed with a good deal of spirit, though showing a great . degree of mannerism, and all wonderfully alike one another. They were all glowing Indian landscapes, done in purple and red and yellow, and were sure to have some native boats in them, with the light shining through the holes in the sails. These were all the productions of Sir Charles Daubly, -- the main-stay of Indian album-keepers, -- and were very much prized by Mrs. Poggleton, who assured Peregrine that they were first-rate specimens, though that young gentleman doubted very much whether his aunt was competent to decide upon their merits. Besides these card-drawings of Sir Charles Daubly's, there were several Indian landscapes by different hands -- some Chinese paintings on rice-paper -- a few snow scenes done on grey card-board, with a black pencil and some flake white -- a flower painting or two, and several copies of verses, "original on purpose for her album," as Mrs. Poggleton declared them to be. At these Peregrine looked with no little interest, as he was desirous to acquaint himself, as far as he could from such a source, with the condition of literature in Calcutta; and as his aunt assured him that all the first Indian literati had contributed "some sonnets and episodes and things" to her album, he looked at the verses in the book with lively emotions of interest, and began mentally to criticise their merits. There was a stirring bacchanal song, with a great deal about "my boys" in it, with the signature of H. M. P., which his aunt said was by Mr. Proteus; and a "Sonnet, written on the banks of the Ganges," signed D. L. R., and another by the same triple initialite, "On seeing a picture of Sir Charles Daubly's," beginning with

"How sweetly sleep the sun's departing rays
On Gunga's holy stream ...."

and ending with something about the poet's art being weak

"To emulate the painter's magic skill."

And then there was something in the Scotch line, not unlike Burns, with the signature of J. G., and some very humorous lines "to a young lady" by M'N., who Mrs. Poggleton said was Captain McNaughty. Besides these there were several copies of verses in an inferior style, and as Mrs. Poggleton did not direct particular attention to them, Peregrine was quite sure they were the production of nobodies, and as such passed them hurriedly over. Having inspected the book he laid it down, and Mr. Clay immediately drew it towards him, and began writing in it with great assiduity.

Peregrine admired the power his brother officer exhibited of writing poetry in the midst of music and talking. Mr. Splashington and Julia Poggleton were singing duets and Mrs. Poggleton was replying to Peregrine's questions in a running commentary on the different people, whose verses were to be found in her album, all the time that Mr. Clay had been writing his "sonnet or episode or something;" but as that gentleman had had the something very snugly deposited, for a long time in the corner of his brain, the intellectual exertion that he had made upon this occasion was not so very wonderful after all, his task being little more than of turning the cock and drawing off what was already in the cask. However, the verses were duly written in the album, and Mrs. Poggleton having previously declared that her eyes were so very bad, requested Peregrine to read them aloud, and that young gentleman accordingly, with much emphasis and expression, very considerably to his own satisfaction and amusement, recited the following lines:

SONNET.

On seeing a Cockroach in my Book-chest on board ship.

Presumptuous sinner! most unwelcome guest!
In such a temple daring to intrude -- 
With sacrilegious tread, unseemly, rude,
Walking midst learning not in learning's quest;
Say, what hast thou, with ever ravenous maw,
To do with science, poetry, and law?
Say, what hast thou to do where Bacon lies -- 
Gigantic knowledge in a narrow space -- 
Where Shakspeare sleeps, through human sympathies,
Touching the heart of all the human race -- 
Where Milton the sublime, and Locke the wise -- 
Blackstone, and Pope, and Shaftsbury have a place -- 
What canst thou have to do with learning's fruits? -- 
If you want leather, you may eat my boots."

"Dear me!" cried Mrs. Ppggleton, when Peregrine had done reading. "What a man you are to be sure. You young men are always so facetious -- a 'cockroach' indeed! well I never -- only think, an episode on a cockroach!"

"And a very fine subject too, I think," said Peregrine. "It is a good thing to anathematize them in verse."

"The nasty creatures!" exclaimed Mrs. Poggleton; "how could you write about them, Mr. Clay? Why I wanted something sentimental and nice. Something you know like that Mr. Bailey's about breaking hearts, and young ladies, and beloved ones, and never forgetting -- and all that -- something that Julia might set to music, you see -- not nasty things about cockroaches."

"Oh!" said Mr. Clay; "perhaps those lines will do that I wrote a little time ago, under the title of the One-Eyed One.

"I met you where I never thought
To meet the like with you;
And tenderly you looked on me
With that deep eye of blue."

"Ah! that's it exactly," interrupted Mrs. Poggleton; "that's very nice -- pray go on."

"I love you, dearest, full as well
As ere I loved you yet;
But still the time, when you had two,
I never can forget.

"Your eye is bright, and clear and soft,
An eye to make one feel -- 
You know I always try to see,
Your sweet face in profile.

"And yet that envious rocket-stick
Has filled me with regret;
For oh! the time before it fell,
I never can forget."

Here Peregrine Pultuney burst into such an ungovernable fit of laughter, that Mr. Clay was unable to proceed, and Mrs. Poggleton began to surmise that there was something absurd in the verses she was listening to, though as they had the right sentimental twang, she could not help thinking that they were very pretty. She, however, declaimed against young men, and declared that they were always playing tricks, and that she should quarrel with Mr. Clay if he was so silly; whereupon that gentleman sat down and wrote a few really sentimental verses, which had already done duty in the albums of considerably more than half his acquaintance. This little act pacified Mrs. Poggleton, and the morning soon glided away. The gentlemen were asked to stay to tiffin; but both of them were either engaged or said they were, and so they departed about half-past one, very much to the satisfaction of Mrs. Poggleton, who had not the least intention that either of them should accept the invitation which she thought herself bound in gratitude to tender.

CHAPTER X.

Containing several Live Lions -- and sundry very instructive Observations upon avast number of interesting Subjects.

The few next days were demolished by our hero in a variety of very pleasant occupations, such aspaying visits, going to church, spending money, and kissing his cousin. With regard to the first of these matters, as Peregrine had brought out with him a prodigious packet of waste-paper under the name of introductory letters, he thought himself bound, a few days after arrival, to do what the sailors call "overhaul them." He had not forgotten what old Mr. Havethelacks had told him about the utter inutility of the epistolary nuisances (nuisances alike to the deliverer and receiver), but as his father had taken a great deal of trouble to collect them for him, and as he did not know that they might not every one of them contain private intelligence, he thought himself bound to deliver them, even at the risk of receiving a considerable measure of highbred impertinence in return. Peregrine Pultuney was proud enough, that is to say he had a very proper horror of being patronized; but he was not one of those shrinkingly sensitive heroes, who are agonized at the bare thought of a cold look, a haughty gesture, or an insolent rebuff. He did not know what it was to stand abashed in the presence of any living creature; and yet he was far from presuming -- he knew his station as well as any body, but when he saw that others either forgot their own or what was due to his, as a gentleman, he threw off his modesty and forbearance, and in expressive phraseology, "took a rise out of" his arrogant acquaintance. All this too he did with the utmost good humour; for he was more inclined to laugh than to growl, even at the very moment that he was applying the lash. He never let his temper get the better of him; he never -- but we must go on with our story; and content ourselves with giving a finishing stroke to this little idiosyncratical portrait, by summing up in all comprehensive language, and describing Peregrine as a cool hand.

So one morning after breakfast, just as Julia was settling herself to her carpet-work, Peregrine Pultuney made his appearance in the drawing-room with a large packet of letters in his hand. Seating himself beside Julia at the round table, he untied the string that confined the packet, and scattered the letters over the surface of the mahogany. "Now, Julia," he said, "you must tell me about all these people."

"What people?" asked Julia Poggleton.

"The people to whom these letters are addressed," replied Peregrine Pultuney, "what am I to do with so many?"

"Oh!" said Julia, "you must either deliver or send them. If you were quite sure that they were only letters of introduction, I would say put them into the fire -- I mean, Peregrine, into the rubbish basket; but, as very likely, the people, who have written them, have only made a convenience of you, I suppose that there is every probability of some, at least, of them containing more about the writer's affairs a great deal, than about yours. But let me see -- to whom are they addressed?"

"Number one," returned Peregrine, promptly, "to the Right Honourable Lord William Cabbagedish Beanstick, Governor-general of India, &c. &c. Number two, to ditto. Number three, ditto, ditto. Pray what must I do with these?"

"Why," replied Julia, "you must give them to the aide-de-camp in waiting -- whom you will find always, I believe, in a down-stairs room in the Government-house -- I suppose, you do not want an interview."

"Oh! dear no," replied Peregrine, "I have no particular ambition to be referred to the chest of drawers and the governor-general's list -- the aide-de-camp in waiting for me."

"Very well," said Julia; "and who next?"

"Let me see -- to his Excellency General Sir Edward Blarney, K.C.B., Commander-in-chief, &c. &c. I read in the paper about him -- ordered home -- just like my luck! He would have done something, I believe, for me; but here's another -- two for the same -- the Hon'ble Sir Theophilus Fatcalf -- where shall I find him?"

"Not very far off" replied Julia, "and he gives such delightful parties. A ball, all through the season, on the first Monday of every month, and burra khanas every week. A very kind, hospitable man, much addicted to punning and to champagne, and Vice-president of India."

"I shall certainly deliver my letters," returned Peregrine; "but who is this? -- by the bye, Julia, do you know Dr. Fitz-simon?"

"No;" said Julia, "but mamma does. You must ask her about Dr. Fitz-simon. She positively swears by him, Peregrine."

"And you don't know him?" exclaimed Peregrine. "I thought every body knew him -- and that you knew every body."

"Nay," said Julia, "not quite; but it would be certainly inexcusable ^n me not to know Dr. Fitzsimon, if he didn't happen to be at the Cape; and yet I have some faint recollection of having seen him when I was a child."

"At the Cape!" exclaimed Peregrine Pultuney. "Just like my luck, Julia -- confound -- I beg your pardon -- but an old friend of mine in England particularly told me to make his acquaintance and gave me a letter, which he said was worth all the introductions in the world. Well! whom have we next? Walter Skewer, Esq., civil service. Pray, Julia, where shall I find him?"

"Not in Calcutta," returned Julia.

"Well, then," said Peregrine, "this Walter Skewer, pray who is he?"

"A great friend of papa's," returned Julia, "and something or other at Allahabad. I have never seen him, but often heard him spoken of; and I believe he is a great virtuoso -- travels about with his library and his pianos -- has an observatory. on the top of his house -- collects pictures and curiosities -- is very liberal, exceedingly clever, and, I have heard, a little eccentric -- you had better send his letter by dâk."

"What's that?" asked Peregrine Pultuney.

"I forgot you were such a griffin," exclaimed Julia, laughing. "I ought to have said by the post.

"Dawk means the post-.-very good, Julia -- I shall be an expert linguist by and by. Well, here is a letter directed to Henry Merrythought Proteus,

Esquire. Why that's the gentleman, whose poetry I read in your mamma's album, I think?"

"The same," returned Julia Poggleton. "He is secretary. to the Pepper and Poppy board, and the most versatile genius in India. Papa says he is an excellent government servant, and I know that he is an excellent actor, he can write poetry, make a speech, sing a song, play the fiddle, paint a picture -- and all better than any body in Calcutta. Besides this, he is one of the most agreeable and least conceited persons in the world -- always cheerful, not at all pedantic, and very much liked by every body who knows him."

"A very paragon," exclaimed Peregrine, -- "a perfect Crichton redivivus!"

"Not quite perfect either," returned Julia, "but perfection abideth not in Calcutta any more than in other parts of the world. As for Mr. Proteus, I often quarrel with him about his professions of unsentimentality. I say 'professions,' for I really cannot think that he is serious when he scoffs at those finer feelings of humanity, which ought to be most tenderly cherished. I believe him to be endowed with those feelings in as high perfection as any man; but he systematically laughs at the sentimental and romantic, and declares that he is never influenced, in any thing that he does, by those exalted motives, which novel-writers prate about and some people make a boast of possessing. The truth is, I think, that he has so great a horror of hypocrisy and false sentiment, that he runs into the opposite extreme, and repudiates the true and the beautiful, at the same time that he .... Oh! that gong! I wish mamma had ordered the gates to be shut."

How much further Miss Poggleton might have proceeded in her analysis of Mr. Proteus's character we are not competent to determine; but it is certain that the sound of the gong, announcing the arrival of a barca sahib, snapped asunder the thread of her discourse, and the sketch was left for ever unfinished. Peregrine gathered up his letters into a seemly heap, moved his chair a little away from the suspicious proximity to his cousin's in which it had been previously located, and pretended to be inspecting an annual, with the most decorous sobriety in the world.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Julia, as she glanced at the card, which the chuprassey put into her hand; "I don't know this person at all. Mr. Julian Jenks -- a stranger to me."

"But not to me," rejoined Peregrine, "by any means -- ah! here he is -- Jenks how do you do? Julia allow me to introduce Mr. Jenks -- Jenks, Miss Poggleton."

Julian seated himself.

"Well," said Peregrine, "what have you been doing since I saw you?"

"Oh!" replied Jenks, "I don't know -- a most confounded hole -- I beg your pardon, Miss Poggleton -- a most pestiferous locality -- I feel even now, after four or five days, as though I had got the fever in my blood."

"You look very well too," remarked Julia.

"Ah! I suppose I do," returned Mr. Jenks, "and I dare say a doctor couldn't find it out -- "

"I dare say not," interrupted Peregrine.

"But yet, I think, I am going to have a fever too," continued Julian, "for I do feel so prodigiously hot."

Miss Poggleton smiled good-naturedly and said, "Oh! then you have nothing to fear -- that symptom is by no means a bad one."

"But," remonstrated Julian, "it is not common heat, it is a dreadful, tingling sensation all over me -- like stinging-nettles or pins and needles -- a most, extraordinary feeling, I assure you; I don't know what to make of it at all."

"When you have been here a little longer," returned Miss Poggleton, scarcely able to suppress the very strong inclination that she felt to laugh out-right at the griffin, "you will know, but too well, by woful experience, what it is we call the 'prickly heat.' It is very tormenting, I know, but instead of being a symptom of fever, it is a proof that you are utterly free from it. I remember thinking it a very ill-natured speech, when the doctor who attended me, when I was poorly last May upon my complaining of the prickly heat, declared he was 'very glad of it.' It is true, I believe, that they, who feel the heat most, suffer the least from its effects -- I suppose it is that sensibility to the external atmosphere augurs a cool state of blood within, whilst insensibility to it shows that the inward heat is far greater than the outer; but really I don't know that I am right, I must ask Dr. Martingale about it."

Miss Poggleton had just delivered herself of the above-recorded very erudite physiological remarks, when a servant entered the room and, with the palms of his hands pressed together, informed the "Missey Baba" that the Mem sahib salaam diya, or in plain English, that Mrs. Poggleton sent her salaam or compliments, which meant and was understood to mean, that she wished to speak to her daughter in her boudoir.

So the two young officers were left together, and the first thing that was said after the departure of Miss Poggleton related to that young lady herself.

"A deuced pretty girl that cousin of yours, Pultuney, eh?" remarked Mr. Jenks.

"Yes," said Peregrine, "I think she is, and a very nice girl too, I assure you."

"A case of smit -- eh?" inquired Mr. Jenks, with one of those facetious ocular demonstrations which are commonly called "winks of the eye."

"Oh! dear no; she is my cousin," returned Peregrine -- "and 'it's all in a brotherly way' -- I should as soon think of getting smit with my sister."

Now, if Peregrine by "getting smit" meant falling in love, and it is more than probable that such was his meaning, we are bound to state that a vast number of young gentlemen have deluded themselves into a similar belief in the brotherly nature of their affections, out of which they have only been awakened by finding themselves some fine morning on the way to church, if they happen to be eligibles, or "forbidden the house," if not. Having in our own persons seen a great deal of this sort of thing, we must avow, for the benefit of our readers, that in common with Sir Richard Steele, and many other wise men, we have the worst possible opinion of what is called "platonic affection;" for the philosophy of such ties in nine cases out of ten assimilates much nearer to the system of Epicurus than to that of the Hymettian sage; and Julian Jenks, who was a bit of a philosopher himself, entertained a similar opinion.

"Oh! that's it, is it?" observed the last-named young gentleman; "but I recommend you, my good fellow, to beware."

"Pure platonism, I assure you," urged Peregrine.

"Oh! very platonic indeed, I have no doubt," returned Julian, "but I dare say you will soon change your system and become a Perry-pathetic."

If the excellence of a pun consists in its badness, as many people confidently assert, it must be acknowledged that Mr. Jenks's allusion to the peripatetic philosophy was of a singularly felicitous description. But be that as it may, it is very certain that our hero laughed a little and groaned a great deal at the execrable witticism of his friend, and having given vent to his feelings in this manner, proceeded, for certain reasons best known to himself, to change the subject with much despatch, and to ask Julian what he had been doing with himself since they had parted a few days before.

"Why," returned Mr. Jenks to this query, "I scarcely know what I have been doing -- nothing very profitable I am afraid. A confounded hole that barrack, as ever I was in, in my life. I wish I had done like you and delivered some of my letters, -- for you seem living in clover at all events -- marble tables, silk couches, good dinners and a pretty cousin!"

"It's not too late now," remarked Peregrine.

"I'm afraid it is," returned Mr. Jenks, "for Phillimore and I have long ago used all the letters to light our cigars with -- I think there's only a bit of one left, and that I'm afraid won't help me much. However, I shall soon go to Dum-Dum, for I'm sick of those horrid barracks. I remember something in the classical dictionary about tying a man to a corpse. It would have been a greater refinement of torture if the man had been tied to a fiddler. We only get one room each allowed us in those barracks, and in the next to mine is a man, waiting for his furlough, who is the most insufferable fiddler I ever knew. The worst of it is, too, that he has bad nights; and whenever he can't deep, he takes his fiddle inside the mosquito curtains, sits up in his bed, and plays away most unmercifully -- 'tickling the dried guts of a squeaking cat,' as somebody says in an old play. There is a man opposite to me with a consumptive cough, which neither lets him nor me rest for a minute; and not many numbers off is a creature, who has fits, and roars like a bull when the attack is on him. Nor is this the worst of living in barracks; the other night we had a little party, Phillimore, myself, and one or two of his friends, and after dinner we had a little singing -- more, I can assure you, to drown the squeakings of the fiddler than any thing else in the world, and would you believe it? on the following morning we were reported to the barrackmaster by a married officer, with a sick wife in the rampart barracks, for disturbing the quiet of the fort, and a special request was made to the said barrack-master to forward the report to Lord Beanstick, which he, however, as a man of sense, did not particularly attend to -- a confounded hole it is, Peregrine; and you may thank your stars that you never entered it."

"I do," said Peregrine, "most fervently -- by the by, Jenks, what did you do about poor little Appleby's property, and have you written home to his parents?"

"Why," returned Julian Jenks, "that's another advantage of living in barracks and being in the army. I did constitute myself his executor, and would have worked day and night -- poor little fellow! I cannot say to do him a service -- but to put his affairs in some order; but the deuce a bit would they let me do any thing of the kind. On the morning after he died, when I was taking my last look at the dear little fellow, and thinking what I had better do about disposing of his property, paying his bills, and other things of that sort, three officers in red jackets, foraging caps, and swords, came stumping and clattering into the room, making noise enough, I was almost saying, to wake the dead; but if they could have done that, I would have welcomed them most heartily; and when I made them a sort of a bow, they stared at me as much as to say 'what the devil are you doing there?' I suppose that I looked in the same way, for one of them asked me if I was a relation of the deceased and said, that they had come to search for a will. 'Then,' said I, very politely, 'you need not trouble yourselves much further, for I can answer for it, that he has left no will; and if he has, I will undertake to find it.' 'That is our business, sir,' said the elder of the three officers. 'The deuce it is,' responded I. 'May I ask, sir, if you are a relation of the deceased. 'No sir, I am not,' replied the officer, sharply. 'But, am president of the committee ordered to assemble at the quarters of the late Ensign Appleby, to search for a will and to make an inventory of the property of the deceased, and, as such, I must request, sir, that you -will not interfere with the authority which has been duly vested in us.' 'Very good, sir,' said I. 'Now I understand; but may I ask if you were acquainted Avith the deceased?' 'Not one of us,' returned the senior officer; 'we are in the performance of a strictly military duty' -- 'Which I leave you to perform,' said I, bowing and moving towards the door: 'but I think that a couple of poor Appleby's friends would do it much more satisfactorily.' And with this, Peregrine, I walked out. I was wrong, -- I know I was wrong to have spoken in this way, but I was so annoyed at seeing a parcel of men, who cared no more about Appleby than his table did, interfering in his affairs, and strutting about the room with all imaginable coolness, in the presence too of the corpse. They were only performing a duty, I know, and to them, I dare say, a very disagreeable one; but I could have done it just as well without their interference, and had it been left to me, the chamber of death should not have been desecrated by the presence of these unfeeling, apathetic committee-men.. However, the thing was done, the boxes were sealed up, the room locked, and all the property is to be sold. I would buy it myself every bit of it, and his horse too, which they tell me is in the Cooly Bazaar, (which I suppose is an establishment something like the horse bazaar in King-street at home) but the whole extent of my stock in cash amounts to seven rupees, half a sovereign, and a lucky sixpence."

"Dear me!" exclaimed Peregrine, "how is that? You surely didn't light your cigar with your letter of credit, as you did with your letters of introduction."

"Not quite so soft as that," returned Julian, "but the fact is, that 'tis not worth a sous -- the people here say not worth a pice. The house has failed, all the houses have failed, and I dare say your agents amongst them."

"No," said Peregrine, "I am safe; which is a deuced good thing for both of us. If we had been left without any money between the two, it certainly would have been a horrid bad job; but as it is, (I need not tell you to cheer up, for you do not look very much distressed) -- as it is, my good fellow, we have plenty between us, so buy the horse and any thing else you like, and I will tell my agents to place half of my money to your credit on their books. Two hundred pounds is more than I can want, so you need not scruple about sharing it with me. My agents are Messrs. Swallow and Newcome, and they live, I don't know what they call the street, but it's somewhere near the square with a pond in it."

"Just like you, Peregrine, -- just like you," returned Mr. Jenks, "but you may depend upon it, my good fellow, that you will find plenty to do with your money; and as for myself, they tell me that I can get an advance of pay whenever I choose to apply for it. Never mind about speaking to the agents, Peregrine; if I want money I shall not scruple to borrow it from you, so you may make yourself easy on that score, and believe me that I feel" -- 

"Stuff about your feelings," interrupted Peregrine Pultuney. "Have you got a buggy at the door?"

"Yes," replied Julian, "I am indulging myself to-day in eight rupees' worth of sun and dust, having just got about enough to pay for it. After this, I must come down to a palankin; but do you feel inclined for a cruise?"

"Yes," said Peregrine, "by all means. Have you been yet to any of the bazaars?"

"Yes; I am afraid I have to most of them, with Philliinore acting as my guide. What is it you want to do there, you rogue?"

Peregrine did not exactly see why he should be called a rogue for wanting to go to the bazaar, neither could he very clearly interpret the meaning of the very sly look that Julian gave him, when he asked the above question; but, as his own thoughts were reverting just then to that useful establishment in Soho-square, where ladies go- to buy baby-linen and work-boxes, and gentleman go to look at the ladies, he answered with great readiness, "Why, what do people ever go to bazaars for, but to buy pretty things?"

"Oh ! to be sure," returned Julian, "if you want to buy things, you must go to the China Bazaar. Come along then, I am all ready;" and in less than a minute the two friends were seated in the buggy, and steering down upon the Chowringhee-road.

They had soon passed what Peregrine called the square with a pond in it, and which the inhabitants of Calcutta are wont to designate Tank-square, or the Laul Diggy, and were splitting on at a very tolerable pace, when our hero, perceiving a large house with rather a business-like aspect in front of him, told his companion it was Swallow and Newcome's office and begged him to drive on to it.

This, however, Mr. Jenks refused most positively to do, until he had extorted a promise from Peregrine that the transfer he had spoken of should not be effected -- a promise we are bound to say, most reluctantly given, and not given at all without a compromise, upon the part of Julian Jenks, who declared that he would draw upon Peregrine, whenever he needed money. "But now," said the last-named young gentleman, "perhaps you will allow me to draw, upon my own account, let us get a bag of rupees and spend it in the China Bazaar. There are few pleasures equal to that of spending money, after an age of self-denial like that, which we were compelled to on board ship. Why, I declare I have spent nothing since the day we bought, between us, that twenty pounds' worth of rubbish at the Cape."

So, in accordance with the philosophy of these remarks, our hero procured a bag of rupees from Messrs. Swallow and Newcome's, and having re-entered the buggy, Mr. Julian Jenks drove straight if it can be called straight, where there are several turnings, into the old China Bazaar.

Now, to people whose ideas of a bazaar are derived from that very useful establishment in Soho-square, of which honourable mention has already been made, the aspect of an Indian Bazaar must be productive of no small measure of surprise, and perhaps disappointment. A gentleman's park is as much like an Indian jungle as the Soho-square establishment is like an Indian Bazaar. There are trees and grass in both, and there is buying and selling in both; but there the similitude ends.

Peregrine found himself, after alighting from his buggy, for it was impossible to drive on, in an excessively narrow street, with an interminable row of small houses on either side, of a very primitive and unarchitectural appearance. The greater number of them were single-storied houses, with a door in the centre, two or three door-steps, no window, and perhaps a board with the name of the shopkeeper and his calling, in Bengalli and English characters, over the door -- Gunga Ram Mullick, cabinet-maker; Prossonoo Deb, cloth-seller, or something of that kind. On the door-steps were to be seen, sitting on their haunches or lounging against the wall, the native shopmen in their clean white muslin dresses and neat turbans, inviting every European passer-by to enter, with "Plenty very fine thing got, master; master want fine cloth; master, come see fine shop, buy." A little within the doors might be seen the book-keepers sitting cross-legged on the floor, with their long China paper books by their sides, looking three parts asleep or more, and only brightening up with the entrance of a customer; whilst the space between two rows of shops, scarcely worthy to be called a street, was densely thronged with human creatures of various nations and denomi-nations, all huddled gregariously together. Hosts of natives, from the fat baboo in his white flowing robes to the naked cooly with the cumbrous burden on his head, were wending along the alley. A knot of jack-tars, with straw hats, bluejackets, and Chinsurrah cheroots in their mouths, were staggering through the crowd, and apparently looking out for a spree -- some wretched cripples, displaying their nude deformities, and endeavouring to excite compassion by the disgusting exhibition of limbs without extremities, twisted spines and unsightly hunchbacks, were creeping about at the feet of the European passengers, until they were pushed aside by some importunate itinerant salesman, with a cage of avadavats or a parcel of China fans, solicitous to engage the attention of the purchasing portion of the community. A few palankins might be seen, here and there, slowly moving along, and attracting the notice of the shopkeepers, who salaamed as they passed by, and proclaimed as visual the possession of "plenty fine things;" whilst an occasional party of European soldiers, with their wives, gave a variety to the motley assemblage. The whole scene was novel and diverting to our hero, who had never seen any thing like it before.

But Julian Jenks, who, living as he was on his own foundation in the South Barracks, had seen at least twenty times as much of the Indian world as Peregrine had from the fine house in Chowringhee, seemed to know perfectly well his way about the bazaar, and to be acquainted with several of the dealers -- as a proof of which he conducted our hero into a furniture-shop, and told him that he would find it necessary to buy several articles, and that he could not provide himself at a better establishment.

"With all my heart," said Peregrine, as he entered a shop in which chairs, tables, beds, couches, and other articles of upholstery were huddled promiscuously together; "and what shall I buy first?"

"Master buy plenty things," returned the head of the establishment, after making a profound salaam -- "master buy three -- four hundred rupee things -- tousand rupees, master, I sell."

"I have no doubt of it," observed Peregrine; "but first of all, what's the price of this bed?"

"Master, I say proper price," replied the obsequious dealer -- "very cheap, master, I sell -- that bed I say forty rupee."

"Very well," said Peregrine, "write it down -- one bed forty rupee."

"Stop," interposed Mr. Jenks, "you must not do that, my good fellow. Forty rupees! why I bought the very fellow to it for sixteen rupees the day before yesterday. Oh! you rogue!"

"Nay, sahib," remonstrated the baboo, very meekly, "I not rogue -- I say forty rupee. Forty rupee that asking price -- master say sixteen -- master take -- be good to poor man, master; buy plenty things, I sell. Mr. Chenk, he buy things from me; he know price, buy very cheap."

"Yes," said Julian, "and very lucky for my friend that I do know the price. You see, Pultuney, that if you give about the third of what these people ask for their goods, you are pretty sure of giving too much. The 'asking price,' as this man calls it, is nothing. They never expect to get what they ask, for nobody ever thinks of giving it. Phillimore says, that the only way to annoy one of these men is to give him immediately what he asks, and he will go away cursing his folly for not having asked three times as much."

"Thank you for the information," returned Peregrine, "we do things very differently in England; but now, let me see -- I want two tables -- six chairs -- a pair of couches -- a book-case -- a chest of drawers, and a washing-stand."

"Yes, master, I show -- all things got -- sell very cheap -- master buy all thing he want."

"Yes," said Jenks, "you had better select everything you want, and then buy them all in a heap."

This was done accordingly; and in half-an-hour afterwards Peregrine had bought all the things enumerated above, besides a dinner and breakfast set -- a great quantity of glasses -- a butter-bowl -- some dish-covers -- a pair of table pedestals (Anglicé, candle-sticks) with glass shades -- a patent coffeepot -- a dozen table-cloths -- a pair of decanters -- a great number of dinner-knives (plate he had brought with him) -- six dozens of beer, and a box of cheroots -- for the whole of which he disbursed about four hundred rupees, and went home well contented with his bargain.

CHAPTER XI.

Containing some Account of Dum-Dum -- the Roads leading to it, and Life in Cantonments.

As it is incumbent on us to proceed a little faster with our history, we shall, without any further delay, send Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks to report themselves at the head-quarters of their regiment, which, as everybody knows, is a place called Dum-Dum, about seven miles distant from Calcutta, situated in the midst of one of the pleasantest swamps in India, and famous for the salubrity of its climate as well as the excellence of its roads.

It was a fine steamy Wednesday morning when our friends set out from Calcutta, in one of Messrs. Hunter and Co.'s hack buggies, with the intention of breakfasting, according to invitation, with Mr. Clay, in his bungalow at Dum-Dum. Not being particularly well acquainted with the geography of the Calcutta suburbs, they thought it expedient to take with them Peer-Khan, who sat at the bottom of the buggy with his feet resting on the step, and was apparently well satisfied with his position.

For two or three miles, after passing Chowringhee, where Julian Jenks had picked up his companion, the road seemed to the young gentlemen to lie through a bazaar, as densely populated, though not quite so confined, as that which they had visited a few days before. At first the streets were tolerably broad, and were skirted with houses of considerable dimensions, that had doubtless at one period been vastly comfortable abodes, but which now appeared somewhat out of repair. A great number of these houses were punch-houses or taverns, as was sufficiently indicated by the large staring boards appended to them, or the coloured flags waving over their portals; whilst others were houses of a still worse character, sinks of infamy of the vilest description. Along the streets were to be seen tottering onward, sailors, intoxicated even at that early hour, or unsteady from the last night's debauch -- low Portuguese and East Indians, male and female -- numberless natives "of sorts," Hindoos, Mahommedans, Chinamen, Arabs, and here and there, though at rare intervals, the flat face of the Mhug. Passing onward, the streets became narrower and the houses at their sides smaller -- long rows of native shops now appeared, all open in the front to the street, and displaying their contents, which were for the most part of a scanty and one-sorted description, to the view of the passer by. Peregrine could not but admire the way in which they seemed to abstain from infringing on one another's conventional privileges, for there were no miscellaneous stores to be seen. Trade amongst them wore a multiform aspect, and dispersed itself thinly over a wide surface, for one man had nothing but brass pots in his shop, whilst another had nothing but earthen ones, a third sold turbans and nothing else, a fourth skull-caps, a fifth looking-glasses, and so on. The earnings of each man must have been small, but then they all earned something -- there were no monopolies amongst them, and they all looked contented, and whether from principle, from prejudice, or from indolence we know not, but they seemed to respect one another's rights, and without knowing any thing about it, to have hit upon the true source of national prosperity.

Mingled with these shops every here and there, a few paces withdrawn from the road, were some spacious but dilapidated edifices, principally of red brick, which, with their extensive porticoes and lofty columns, called to mind an age of by-gone magnificence, when Chowringhee and Garden Reach were not. In front of the shops and by the side of the aqueducts, which in some places ran along the road, were to be seen natives, men, women, and children, washing their limbs and their long black locks, which, unconfined, streamed over their shoulders; sitting on their haunches at the thresholds of their houses were others, submitting to the operations of the barber, or disentangling one another's wet hair, before twisting it up in the seemly knot behind, which gives to men such a womanlike aspect; whilst walking slowly along the street and staring wildly around, were some men, almost naked from head to foot, who, with their smeared and painted faces, and their loamed hair, to our friends, who had never before seen a Sunyasse, looked like denizens of another and a lower sphere, roaming abroad on a terrestrial visit. Altogether the scene was novel and interesting; and in spite of the difficulty of getting along through so densely populated a locality, Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks were really sorry when they found themselves on a clear road, where carhanchies and hackeries were almost the only things in their way.

The latter half of the journey to Dum-Dum was performed in less than half an hour, which our hero spent very profitably in swearing at the road and making his observation on the quantity of water, that seemed to have fallen on the country adjacent to it. There can scarcely be a more unpicturesque three miles than those three last on the route to Dum-Dum; so it must be acknowledged that it is an admirable arrangement of the executive engineer's, which provides for the wants of the passenger so admirably, by giving him, in the absence of all other subjects of conversation, a never-failing one in the badness of the roads. What are people to do in an unpicturesque country, if they have no holes and ruts to swear at by the way?

But our friends, by a marvellous piece of good fortune, reached Dum-Dum without breaking their buggy springs. Now Dum-Dum is a place not at all like Woolwich; for Woolwich is built on a hill, and Dum-Dum is certainly not -- for though Mr. Croley has apostrophized the mountains of Bengal, it is very certain that there are none in the province, and more certain still that there are none near Dum-Dum -- for where that place is not surrounded by a salt-water lake, it is surrounded by jungles and paddy fields; and has been especially selected as the head-quarters of the artillery, because it is the dampest place in India, and therefore considered eminently adapted to the purpose of carrying on experiments in gunpowder; and, moreover, on account of its morning fogs, a very fitting place for practising, at a long range, against invisible targets. It has other advantages besides this -- it is a "half-batta station," and, as such, it is an admirable school of economy, and just the place of all others, to teach a young officer, on his first arrival in the country, by his own painful experience, the misery of being in debt.

We do not undertake to say, that these were the observations, which Supernumerary Second-lieutenant Peregrine Pultuney made upon first entering Dum-Dum, for the fact is, that he observed little more than there were a number of broad overflowing moats, running alongside of the roads, several very black, weather-stained houses, and an inclosed plain, somewhat under water, which he predicted would make, in the dry weather, an excellent cricket ground. He had scarcely time to extend his reflections, before, aided by certain inquiries made by Peer Khan, he had discovered the locality of Mr. Clay's bungalow, and entered that gentleman's compound.

Mr. Clay was reading the newspaper, at full length on a couch, when the young gentleman entered the room, which struck Peregrine as being a much more habitable apartment than he had, from his uncle's description, expected to find in a subaltern's bungalow; and after having shaken hands with Mr. Clay, and introduced Julian Jenks, he incontinently expressed himself to that effect.

"You have got a very nice house," observed Peregrine.

"Pretty well," returned the lieutenant; "but you seem surprised at the circumstance -- why should I not have a nice house?"

"Upon my word, I don't know," replied Peregrine, "except that my uncle says a lady's chit, a governor-general's head, and a subaltern's bungalow, are the three emptiest things in the world."

"Your uncle is not far wrong," replied Clay, smiling; "a subaltern's bungalow is not generally a very elaborately furnished abode -- -a toon-wood table, somewhat ricketty -- with two chairs, and a charpoy, are often the whole of his household furniture."

"What's a charpoy?" asked Peregrine Pultuney.

"Why don't you know, Peregrine," replied Julian, before Mr. Clay could come out with his answer, that char is Hindustani for tea, and that char-poy and tea-poy are the same -- both signifying a tea-table.

"Dear me!" cried Peregrine, "I never thought of that."

"And I hope that you will not think of it any more," said Mr. Clay, laughing as he spoke, "for a char-poy and a tin-pay are two very different things, as one is a bed, and the other a table, char means four, and tin, three -- a tin-pay is a table with three feet, and a char-poy a bed with four -- a bed made of four short legs and a quantity of broad tape -- I'm sorry I have not one to show you."

"Well," said Jenks, "that was stupid -- aik, do, tin, char, paunch -- I did learn that much at Addiscombe."

Peregrine Pultuney and Mr. Clay both indulged in a laugh at Mr. Jenks' expense, and that young gentleman was not a bit behind-hand in contributing his quota to the merriment. When they had laughed enough, Mr. Clay continued:

"There are several reasons why a subaltern's bungalow is not always a cottage ornée; but the most cogent of them all is, that it rarely happens a subaltern has the means of making it so. When you have been here -- I mean in India -- a little time, you will be very unpleasantly made sensible of the fact, that our honourable masters, the Company, pay their different servants after a very different fashion indeed; and that their worst paid servants of all are those who are called upon occasionally to "come and be killed," like Mrs. Bond's dillies. They get men cheap enough to stand up and be shot; but they pay a good price for their quill-drivers. Captain Sword fares but poorly, whilst Captain Pen lives in clover. You have, I know, been out several times, for a drive on the Calcutta 'course;' and have seen the number of smart equipages that adorn it every evening; and these, I dare say, have given you a very fair idea of the general wealth of the community. When you have been here a little longer, you will discover that one-half of these people, whom you see in the carriages on the course, are people whom you will not meet in society -- very excellent, very worthy people, doubtless -- but not on the "Government-house list," not seen at the burra khanas of Chowringhee. And yet all these people, Pultuney, drive carriages and live in houses, that we must not think of aspiring to until we are field officers. They are mostly uncovenanted servants -- a great number of them East Indians, with either situations in the public offices, or else in the large agency houses. Many of them receive as much as a thousand rupees a month, whilst we exist on a hundred and fifty, or else involve ourselves hopelessly in debt. There are hosts of country-born clerks in our public offices, who would turn up their noses at a subaltern's pay -- and yet we are expected to make a figure as officers and - gentlemen -- to live well, to dress well, to appear in society -- to keep numerous servants, to belong to an expensive mess, to subscribe to funds innumerable, and all on a monthly pittance that would not suffice to light up a good house in Chowringhee."

"Magnificent prospect!" ejaculated Peregrine Pultuney.

"As the gentleman said on the cross of St. Paul's," added Julian Jenks, with a sigh.

"I have not sought," continued Mr. Clay, "as yet to contrast our situation with that of the covenanted civil servants. We are so manifestly worse off than the understrappers, that it would be superfluous to speak of the superiors. Civilians of my standing in the service, have for the most part appointments worth a thousand or twelve hundred a month, whilst I, after seven years' service, am luxuriating upon a second lieutenant's pay, which, after all deductions, for funds innumerable, is actually one hundred and fifty-four rupees, some odd annas and pie."

"And yet," said Peregrine, "you seem very comfortable -- I cannot say, that I think you are to be pitied."

"If I had no other means of subsistence than that derived from my commission, I should be very greatly an object of pity; but as it is, I am comfortable enough, and keep to the service because I like it. When one considers the number of temptations a man has to cast his military skin, I think this shows very great devotedness. My temptations too are greater than ordinary -- but still I stand firm."

"I know they are," said Peregrine, smiling.

"What do you know?" asked Mr. Clay.

"You will excuse me, I dare say," said Peregrine, "but I have heard that you are going to be married."

"It is true," said Mr. Clay, frankly, "and for this reason, you now see me better housed than the majority of subalterns. I hope, that soon after the arrival of the Hungerford, this bungalow will be tenanted -- "

"The Hungerford!" interrupted Peregrine, "why, I thought your intended was in Calcutta -- I heard from more than one quarter, that you are to be married to a Miss Skinner."

"Very probably," returned Mr. Clay, "and if you should hear that I am going to espouse my grandmother, you must not think it extraordinary for a Calcutta report. I know Miss Skinner very intimately, it is true, but I have only known her since I have been an engaged man; and I verily believe that it has as much entered into her imagination to take the Ochterloney monument for a netting-needle as to take me for a husband -- and yet the report of which you speak has been rife, ever since I returned from England in the same ship with Miss Skinner and her mother, although I have taken every pains to disseminate a knowledge of my engagement at home."

"And did that have no effect?" asked Peregrine.

"A very great one," returned Mr. Clay, "for it helped to gain me the character of a scoundrel, in certain circles, which was, to be sure, vastly agreeable. It was pretty well established that I had an engagement at home, but it was soon rumoured that I intended to break it; and I actually heard, that I had written home by .the last ship to the father of my betrothed in England, to say that I had mistaken the nature of my affection for her, that it was not of that permanent character, which I once supposed it to be, and that therefore I thought it better for both parties to break off the match. Now it Bo happened, that I had written by the last ship, but for no other purpose than to urge the immediate embarkation of my intended, who is now on the way to India, and perhaps by the time that my marriage has appeared in the paper, and we have paid all our wedding visits, it will be discovered that the gossips of Calcutta were mistaken, and I a truer man than they deemed me."

"A nice place this Calcutta!" remarked Peregrine.

"Very," returned Mr. Clay; "it is scarcely more than a week since a lady told me that she believed it was all nonsense about my engagement, and that I had only circulated a report of its existence in order to establish myself on an easier footing, with my young lady acquaintances. She smiled sceptically when I told her that my intended was just then about rounding the Cape."

"I should have thought that had been a floorer," observed Mr. Jenks.

"Not a bit of it!" returned Mr. Clay; "nothing staggers an Indian scandal-monger. A friend of mine, in the civil service, returned from England a few months ago, leaving behind him a young wife, whom he had married at home, and been compelled to part from, under very distressing circumstances -- and will you believe that this man, though actually a benedict, was, only a week or two after landing, actually given to three young ladies in succession; and even now he is occasionally talked of, though a very quiet man, as being about to make some match or other. So after this, who can complain? If marriage itself is no defence,how can we expect an engagement to screen us from these hymeneal reports -- but here comes breakfast, let us adjourn to the other room."

Breakfast having been despatched in the usual manner, that is very satisfactorily indeed, the two young gentlemen were recommended by Mr. Clay to equip themselves forthwith for a visit of ceremony to Brigadeer Green, C.B., Commandant of Artillery, &c. &c. &c., but no sooner was the equipment mentioned, than both the griffins discovered that they had nothing to equip with, having set out for Dum-Dum with no other uniform than a black coat and velvet waistcoat a piece, in which said articles they had intended to figure at the mess, a place above all others where they were least required.

Now it so happened that Peregrine, being "a well-grown youth," found no difficulty whatever in suiting himself to one of Mr. Clay's raggies which being a little the worse for wear, gave him, as he remarked, a very veteran aspect; but Julian Jenks, who was somewhat fat and pursy, could not at all accommodate himself to the toggery of the long lieutenant, and was therefore placed in a dilemma, out of which he was only extricated by a talismanic chit, which being addressed by Mr. Clay to a fat brevet captain in an adjoining house, had the effect of producing a shell-jacket, and a foraging-cap, which fitted Mr. Jenks to a nicety.

So the young gentlemen set out with their borrowed accoutrements -- foraging-cap, sword, and tiger-boy-jacket, like the Addiscombe uniform with the tail cut off -- under the auspices of Mr. Clay, in a painted box upon wheels, or palki-carriage, belonging to that gentleman, and in less than three minutes the trio had entered the compound of the brigadier's house, which went by the name of" Fairy-hall," though it was as unfairy-like as it could possibly be, being a very substantial two-storied edifice, well calculated for the abode of real flesh and blood of as material a nature as any in existence.

The brigadier was playing at billiards with an assistant surgeon, a horse artillery officer, and a gentleman in the Bombay Marines. He was a very fine old gentleman indeed, with silvery grey hair, a face that must once have been very handsome, and a figure that did not seem much the worse for forty years' wear and tear in the country. Peregrine could not help observing, however, that he held his cue very unsteadily, and was obliged to take every now and then a sip at the large tumbler of cold sangoree (negus), which was standing on a side-board in the room for the use and refreshment of the billiard-players.

All along the passage that skirted the billiard-room were laid out a vast number of shirts, and trousers and jackets, and other articles of linen apparel, which a couple of bearers, and two or three dhurzies (tailors) were very sedulously engaged in over-hauling, whilst here and there might be seen several large open linen-chests, out of which the articles alluded to had been taken. The fact was that Brigadeer Green had just made up his mind, for the seventh time, "to go home in the cold weather by the Cornwall" -- a determination at which he arrived, with singular regularity, every autumn, but which he had always abandoned with an equal regularity directly the cold weather made its appearance, and brought with it the annual visit of the Cornwall. It is a remarkable fact that he was always "going home;" but that he never went after all; and death, when it overtook him at last, -- for death will sometimes overtake major-generals -- found him still in India, what Shelley calls a monument of a purpose unaccomplished.

There was something about the old gentleman that took Peregrine's fancy, though he was not particularly civil to our hero; and a few indifferent questions that he put to him were uttered in a voice which had nothing very insinuating in its tones. Still Peregrine thought that he should like the brigadier, and tune proved that he was not mistaken. Now, however, the old officer was playing at billiards; and he and the gentleman in the Bombay marines were in a fair way to be beaten by the assistant surgeon and the horse artillery officer; so Peregrine very wisely thought that it was not the best possible opportunity to get into favour of the commandant, and accordingly in a very few minutes suggested to Mr. Clay and Julian Jenks that it was time to move off.

So accordingly they did move off, and Mr. Clay further suggested that as they had started they might as well unbuckle their swords and pay a few private visits -- which suggestion was accordingly acted upon; and it must have been particularly gratifying to the feelings both of Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks, to have seen the earnestness with which most of the people they called upon expressed their pleasure at seeing the young gentlemen, and hopes that they had come to join -- hopes and pleasures, which seemed to be fully participated in by several very nice young married women, who assured the griffins that they had better remain at Dum-Dum, and not think of going away, as Peregrine talked of doing, for the remainder of the month. There was something peculiarly gratifying in this, and our griffins began to think that they had got amongst the most cordial-minded and friendly people in the world, nor was it until one of the young married ladies, a girl three months emerged from her spinstership, let out, in the most honest manner imaginable, that there would now be two more officers for guard, that our friends discovered the anxiety manifested about them to be not purely of a disinterested nature. They were wanted to be harnessed into the duty-coach, and so their coming was a matter of importance.

"Ah, that main guard!" observed Mr. Clay, laughing, "it is a regular bugbear to all our subalterns and their wives. It is dreaded like the approach of a monster; and in truth it is a monstrous bore."

"Is it?" exclaimed Peregrine. "Why I remember that, at the Cape, the main-guard was a sort of central rallying place for all the militaires in the town. The guard-room was never empty, and the jest and the laugh might be heard in it all day long."

"But marvellous few the jests and the laughs that you are likely to hear in the Dum-Dum guardroom," returned Mr. Clay. "It is the most lugubrious of all lugubrious places; for no one ever thinks of entering it who can possibly keep himself out. You talk about the emptiness of a subaltern's bungalow; but if you want to see real desolation, you should pay a visit to our main-guard."

"I suppose we shall be obliged to do that soon, whether we like it or not," remarked Mr. Jenks.

"Yes, that you will before long. This periodical infliction is one, however, that falls the heaviest on the married portion of the community; at least if we may believe what our ladies say, who hate the guard as they do the prickly-heat, or any other Indian abomination. Poor little things! It is the best fun in the world to tease them about their guard days, and ask them whether they enjoy their widowhood."

"Ah!" said Peregrine, "laugh while you can. Your turn will come very soon, and then we shall laugh at you."

"Very true," remarked Mr. Clay.

"And at you too, Peregrine, I suspect," added Julian Jenks, "if you go on in that way with your cousin."

"Pure platonism, I assure you," returned Peregrine.

"I have no doubt of it," rejoined Mr. Jenks; "but pray whose house is this?"

"Yours, mine, and every body's," replied Mr. Clay -- "or in other words it is the mess-house -- I thought you would like to see it."

The party emptied themselves out of the palankin-carriage, at the foot of a flight of steps, which led up to the mess-rooms, and whilst they were ascending these steps, which, however, were not very numerous, they were exposed to the full fierceness of the meridian sun and the dreadful glare, which was ten times worse than common, being reflected from the pile of white masonry before them. When Peregrine reached the verandah, he could scarcely see, and his eyes felt scorched in their sockets as though by a great fire. "You want a portico here sadly!" said our hero.

"So we do, and I suppose that we shall get one soon -- but what do you think of these rooms?"

Peregrine thought that they were very fine rooms, and made his observations accordingly. Excellent dining-rooms, he said -- might dine an hundred and twenty -- something like the mess-room at Woolwich -- nay, better than the Woolwich mess; for he observed that they had got a ball-room as well as a mess-room, and at Woolwich, they danced in the latter -- had they got a good library at Dum-Dum?

"You shall judge for yourself," said Mr. Clay, in reply to this question, conducting the griffins at the same time into a room of considerable dimensions, with well-stocked book-cases concealing the entire area of the walls. Two round tables, with green baize covers, and a multitude of newspapers and periodicals upon them, showed that the apartment was a reading-room, as well as a library; whilst three or four portraits of gentlemen in red-coats, the chief of whom was the Marquis of Hastings, gave the room a slight tinge of the military. Peregrine observed that of all the books on the writing-table the Sporting Magazine appeared to have been most read, and, that there was more vacancies in the novel shelves than in any other part of the library.

But before Peregrine had time to make up his mind as to the merits of the collection around him, his eyes fell upon a gentleman, in white and all white, who was kicking his heels about the reading-room, as though he did not very well know what to do with himself, and dangling in one of his hands a couple of great brass keys. Peregrine recognized this young gentleman, at once, as a fellow-student at Addiscombe, who had passed out of the college just six months before himself.

"Hallo! Nixon," he said, "what are you doing here -- how are you?"

Mr. Nixon, thus accosted, turned round, and shook Peregrine by the hand with much apparent cordiality, having done which he greeted Julian Jenks after a similar fashion, and declared himself very glad to see them both.

"Deuced glad to see you both," cried the young subaltern, "two more hands to mount guard. It will then be -- let me see -- once only in ten days -- horrid bore! -- there's the stupid billiard-table right out of the other side of cantonments. If we had it in the mess it would not signify. Come to join, I hope? -- A few days under the adjutant, and soon fit for every duty. Do you know what battalion you are posted to?"

"Dear me!" cried Peregrine, "you are in a hurry -- I shall come up to join on the first of next month."

"Pooh, pooh!" remonstrated Mr. Nixon, "next month! -- come now -- what's the use of going back to Calcutta -- Dum-Dum is a much better place -- I assure you, it is much better. You and Jenks can take a house together -- there's a capital house empty next to mine, and I recommend your securing it immediately. Several officers are expected very shortly from sea; and all the houses will soon be taken."

"Thank you," said Peregrine, who did not put much faith in the disinterestedness of Mr. Nixon's advice; "but I think that we might take the house without the necessity of entering it immediately. However, Jenks has promised to manage all this -- we have got leave till -- what do you call it? -- muster; and in the mean time Jenks will furnish the house, whilst I return to my aunt's."

"For aunt, read cousin," whispered Mr. Jenks.

"Well, all I can say is," continued Mr. Nixon, "that you will like Dum-Dum much better than Calcutta -- confound it, though, what is this?"

Peregrine turned round and close behind him he saw standing, in the attitude of attention, a native soldier, in undress uniform, with his cap on and his shoes off. Peregrine thought he was very disrespectful, and essayed to tell him so in a speech beginning with "Ms-waste" (why) and indeed ending with the same; for after that he could not get any further.

The sepoy held a coarse canvas bag in one hand, whilst with the other he presented Mr. Nixon with a chit. Mr. Nixon glanced at the contents, exclaimed "I thought so," and looked not very amiably disposed towards the writer of the note.

"There now," he continued, "think of that -- money to be deposited in the treasure chest, and another bag to be taken out -- that's the bore of this guard -- look at the sun, Pultuney -- now does it not look fierce enough to turn the very birds on the trees into kabobs?"

Peregrine did not know exactly what a kabob was, but he assented to the general truth contained in the sentence last spoken, and observed that it was very hot.

"I wish," continued Mr. Nixon, "that people would keep their own money at home. I always keep mine," -- a thing which to tell the truth he might easily have done, as he seldom had more than ten rupees in his possession at any one time after pay-day; "but these men in charge of companies and band funds, and canteen funds, are always bothering us to go over in. the day-time -- I wish they'd be more considerate."

"Why, you must remember, Nixon," interposed Mr. Clay, "that you can easily avoid all this by remaining over at the guard-house; but as it is so uncommonly hot, you had better go there in my gharee."

Peregrine who knew Mr. Nixon of old as a determined grumbler, was not sorry to hear Mr. Clay administer this gentle hint; however, he contented himself with asking if the guard-house was very far off.

"Oh! no," said Mr. Clay, "it's close by -- that house in the next compound -- a stone's throw only from this. Nixon complains that the billiard-table is not close by, and quite forgets how fortunate we may consider ourselves in having the guard-house and the mess contiguous, so that the officer on guard may be permitted the indulgence of going to the mess house when the arms are turned in. Have you a mind to go and look at the guard-house?"

"Oh! yes," said Peregrine, "by all means -- wait, Nixon, for Jenks and me. By the bye, Mr. Clay, has that native soldier a right to come into the room with his chac6t on; is it not very disrespectful?"

Mr. Clay kughed and replied, that a native showed his respect by taking off his shoes instead of his hat, and keeping the latter on his head.

"My griffinage again!" exclaimed Peregrine.

So the three young officers went over to the guard-house, and the first thing that Mr. Jenks did, was to ejaculate "Well, if this isn't .a confounded hole! I never -- "

Mr. Jenks was not far wrong -- there was a room, certainly, with a bed in it, and the remains of a torn punkah without ropes, which no human ingenuity could have put into motion -- two leaves of a dilapidated old table standing at right angles with one another, and both of them exhibiting a very fair proportion of huge ink-stains upon their superficies, each about the size of the crown of one's hat. It would have been difficult to say how many ink-stands had been upset on that table, or how many gentlemen had amused themselves with drawing trees and faces on its surface. Mat was there none on the floor -- neither good, bad, nor indifferent; but there were two chairs, with only cane enough for one between them; and two or three large boards with "regulations" about salutes and other things pasted on them, which the dirt and the damp together had rendered utterly illegible. Add to these pleasant appearances four walls very much stained with the damp, and a floor very dirty and ink-stained, and the reader will be able to judge whether Mr. Jenks was not justified in calling it "a confounded hole."

As for Peregrine, he made up his mind not to mount guard sooner than he could help, and it is but justice to him to state, that he kept his resolution with the utmost constancy.

CHAPTER XII.

Containing a long Letter from our Hero, replete with Wisdom and Morality.

As it is really incumbent on us to keep moving a little faster, we shall suppose Mr. Pultuney to have spent his fortnight with his cousin, to have floundered still deeper into platonism, to have joined his regiment at Dum-Dum, and to have lived there some months before it occurred to him, that in accordance with a long-standing promise, he ought to have written a letter to his brother to acquaint him with the opinions he had formed of men and manners in British India. He had of course duly announced his arrival to his parents; but as his brother was an undergraduate at Oxford, and like himself, of a lively disposition, he judged, with that sagacity for which he was so conspicuous, that a young gentleman so situated would take greater pleasure in an epistle written for his own particular perusal, than in one full of sage details and praiseworthy resolutions, such as young officers write to their parents, when they have it in design to extort money from them.

As we do not know any thing that will give our readers a better idea of what Peregrine thought and did, during the first few months of his sojourn in India, than this same fraternal epistle, we shall present it at once to our readers, without any further comment.

Peregrine Pultuney, Esquire, of the Bengal Artillery, to Harry Pultuney, Esquire, of Brazen Nose, Oxford.

"My Dear Harry -- I have often been 'going' to write to you, but my 'goings' unlike the auctioneers', have never until now ended in a 'gone.' Even at this time I am desperately idle, and I should not wonder if, before I have written three pages of this letter, I were to push aside the blotting-book, throw my legs on the table, draw my cigar-box from behind the ink-stand, and call desperately for aug.

"I must tell you that aug means fire. We subalterns, I am almost ashamed to tell you, are a desperately lazy set of fellows. I often think of you with your 'oak' closed, your head between your hands, your waistcoat thrown open, and your eyes fixed on the pages of your Aristotle -- in elaborate preparation for your 'great go.' How different it is with me. My 'little go' has consisted in the putting a parcel of gunners through the 'company drill,' and my 'great go,' for which I am now actively preparing, is nothing more than a sort of examination in what is called the 'laboratory course,' and for which nothing is requisite but an acquaintance with the names of a component part of a gun, and the different implements of destruction, grape, cannister, &c., which are rammed into the said gun, for the benefit of society at large. Latin and Greek are unknown tongues, or nearly so, in this part of the world; and I believe that the little acquaintance with them, that there is, lies more in the soldiers' barracks than in the officer's bungalows. There are, I assure you, some marvellous learned men amongst our artillery privates, though all the learning does not lie exactly in the classical line. Not but that we have classics, for a few weeks ago, as I was lying in bed, just beginning to think of getting up, one of our officers came into my room and told me that the brigadier wished to see me to breakfast. Of course, I had no manner of objection, and to the brigadier's accordingly I went, not knowing very well to what circumstance I was indebted for this honour. However, it soon came out that the old gentleman had been making inquiries as to who was the most likely person in cantonments to be well acquainted with Latin and Greek, and as somebody had very obligingly mentioned my name, he had sent for me to ask if I would be good enough to examine a Bombardier Something, who had applied to the brigadier for his discharge, under the plea of having got a situation as master of a school in Calcutta. The old gentleman gave me to understand, that he believed the man knew nothing about it; though his only reason for thinking so was that the bombardier was strongly recommended by certain gentlemen of the evangelical persuasion, for whom he entertained a very sincere contempt. However, he was quite wrong. The man, who was well born and well educated, and who had enlisted, on account of some family dissensions, not attributable to ill conduct of his own, proved himself to be a very tolerable scholar -- could turn English into Latin, and Latin into English, and perform the same process by Greek. I had no hesitation, therefore, in expressing my satisfaction with the abilities, which the man had evinced, and so far it was all very well; but would you believe it, after going through the Latin and Greek, the fellow had the assurance to volunteer to undergo an examination in Hebrew! about which, as you are very well aware, I am as ignorant as a New Zealander. Thanks, however, to a certain constitutional readiness, with which I believe myself to be abundantly endowed, I said to the man, 'Suppose we do -- it will be satisfactory to the brigadier -- so you had better go and fetch your books, whilst I report progress on the classics.' The man, as I pretty well guessed, had not got any Hebrew books; so I told him that I was equally badly off, and that we must content ourselves with the Latin and Greek, with which I had no doubt the brigadier would be satisfied. The man got his discharge and his appointment, and I by this last stroke of finesse saved myself from the conspicuous pleasure of knowing that the laugh would be against me in the barracks.

"I promised to tell you what I might think of India -- the promise was a very rash one, for, after a residence of some months, I scarcely know what to think of it. It is not in the least like what I expected to find it, nor in the least like what it is described in books. As for society in Calcutta, it is a sort of mixture of what society is in a small place with what it is in a large one -- partly metropolitan and partly country-town-ish, it partakes plentifully of the evils of both without presenting the advantages of either. Although there are various sets and plenty of room for people to move about without interfering with one another, every individual member of Calcutta society is just so much an object of interest to all the cliques, that the entire community are ready, when occasion offers, to find a hole in the individuals' jacket. The society of Calcutta is too large to admit of it's being characterized by that oneness, which we see in smaller communities, but it is not large enough to suffer a man to do what he likes without being observed upon by those around him. The consequence is, as you may easily suppose, that there is more gossip and scandal and ill-nature than there is in a small community, such as that of a country town or large village in England, because there are more subjects to anatomize -- more victims to fasten upon -- and, believe me, my dear Harry, when I say that if the devil were to desire to inform himself of the full extent, to which anger, hatred, and all uncharitableness are carried by the denizens of this middle sphere, he could not select a more fitting place of observation, than he would find beneath one of the damask sofas in a gaudy Chowringhee drawing-room.

"As for Dum-Dum the society is small enough, and single enough for all purposes. I do not think that the people here concern themselves much about Calcutta, and still less do I think that they are much contaminated by their propinquity to the City of Scandal. We are all very friendly, very quiet, and, as far as I can see, very humble. There is this great advantage in a purely military community, that the allowances of every officer are so fully known that no one ever thinks of cutting out his neighbour or attempting any thing like display. We all know one another thoroughly, being all of the regiment, and yet owing to the extent of the regiment, our society at head-quarters is constantly undergoing a gradual change. One week an officer arrives from England -- in the next another is sent off on command -- and so on, until, with the exception of the staff, the whole society of the place is filtered out in the course of the year -- I dare say before many months have expired, I shall pass through the filter myself.

"There cannot be a better place than this same head-quarters for 'us younkers' on our first arrival. I dare say you will think I have grown marvellously sage; but the fact is, that during the little time I was in Calcutta, I saw to a very considerable extent the evil accruing from the barrack-life, to which a great number of cadets on their first arrival are condemned. A little friend of my own, to whom I was most sincerely attached, fell a victim to this system. People here say that letters of introduction are of scarcely any use in the world -- and so I say, but one good letter to a resident in Calcutta, who will take you into his house, on your arrival, is worth all the money in the world. When a young man just let loose from school, finds himself in a strange place, without even the commonest social restraints to coerce him -- utterly unacquainted with anybody, but a few other youths in the same position -- answerable to no one, an object of concern to no one, too insignificant an atom in the great mass of society to attract the attention even of the keenest busy-bodies, it is no wonder, that, thus thrown away as it were, he should cease to respect himself and give way to a latitude of conduct, which, if he felt himself of any importance in society -- or occupying any distinct position, he would turn away from with shame and abhorrence. Now, we of the artillery are rescued from this evil by the contiguity of our head-quarters to Calcutta -- whilst others are ruining themselves in the cadet barracks, with no other society but that of young men as heedless as themselves, we find ourselves following our profession -- mixing in good fellowship with older officers, before whom we should be ashamed to act in a way unbecoming a man -- we feel ourselves too, of some importance as occupying a definite station in society; and knowing that our conduct is observed by others -- by those below as well as those above -- we are naturally desirous to set an example to the former, whilst we are gaining the commendations of the latter, and ensuring the respect of both, as well as of our ownselves.

"I think I hear you exclaim. 'What Peregrine turned moralist! Wonders will never cease.' Well then, Harry, if you like it, I am turned moralist, all things by comparison of course. I was a sad wild fellow when I left England -- we all are at some time or other -- and I believe that the earlier we sow our wild oats the better it is for us; and besides, Harry, I was at the mess till very late last night, and I have got just the least bit of a headache.

"I dare say you will think in your heart, that people are never so well disposed to be discreet as when they are suffering from their indiscretions; but I can assure you that the very headach I have got now is a strong evidence of the quiet life I am leading. A few months ago I could have drunk just double the quantity that I did last night, without feeling any inconvenience. It used to be my boast once, that I could see much older men under the table; but now I wonder that I could ever have prided myself on a qualification of such questionable merit.

"But I must drop this egotism, and tell you what I can about other people, though, as you have no very particular friends in these parts, you will not be much interested in my items of personal news. In the first place, then, I must inform you that our Uncle Poggleton is an uncommonly clever, hard-working man, very dull company, generally speaking, but full of facts as a cyclopaedia, when once he begins to hold forth; whilst Aunt Poggleton is the very reverse of this, talks an infinite deal of nothing, and, without meaning in the least to be severe, says the most ill-natured things of her neighbours that could enter into the most malevolent heart to conceive. Yet I honestly do not think that she is spiteful -- her head, not her heart, is at fault; and I really believe that, if she knew the way, she would put herself to considerable inconvenience to serve her husband, her daughter, or myself, for I must tell you that I am a prime favourite. She is excessively selfish about small things; but I think that if an opportunity should offer, she would astonish those who know her best, some of these days, by showing herself a worthier creature than she is esteemed. This, however, is only my vaunted penetration, and I may, after all, be wondrously mistaken.

"But as for our cousin Julia, I think that I do know her; and the more I see of her, Harry, the more convinced I am that she is as superior to every other girl in Calcutta, as -- what shall I say? -- as Paris was to all the shepherds on Mount Ida. No, that won't do -- as Venus -- hang it, my similes flash in the pan. But Julia -- she is very pretty, very ladylike, and very amiable -- amiable without insipidity; for she is full of fun and of satire too, but her satire is general not personal satire, and as such I do not much object to it. Then she sings very sweetly, and her conversation is full of shrewdness and wit. As a companion she is never wearisome, never dull for a minute; and I must say, that the happiest hours I have passed, since I left England, have been passed in her society. Do not think, Harry, that I am smitten -- ours is a sort of brotherly and sisterly league, quite free from all absurdity and restraint, and very pleasant, I hope, to both parties -- pure platonism, I can assure you, yet very delightful nevertheless. The worst of it is, that I have only got one horse; and am compelled therefore to spend a mint of money on hack carriages between this and Calcutta -- 'Dum-Dum-ers' as the people call them, and very useful conveyances too, being cheap and nasty, and the only vehicles that arc at all fitted to get over our execrable roads. Yet, cheap as they are, three trips a week into Calcutta make a good hole in a subaltern's pay.

"You remember my friend Jenks -- the fellow with the good-natured round face, who was one of our party that night to the Cyder Cellars -- well, he and I are living together. We took a house between us, when we first came here, made it tolerably comfortable inside, and provisioned it in first-rate style. Very silly and griffish we were too, for we bought Burgundy, Champaign, and Curaçao, (things quite unbecoming a subaltern) and took it into our heads to give tiffin parties. This was all very well, whilst the money lasted, and our house got the name of Stangy (quasi, distingue) Hall; but two thousand rupees will not last for ever, and I am now obliged to live upon my pay, which I assure you is difficult enough. However, as my purse got low, my ideas got humble in proportion: before I landed, I fully intended to buy a buggy and two horses; after a little time, my thoughts descended to a buggy and horse; and at last I finished by purchasing a horse, without any buggy at all. It is the fashion here for gentlemen, who have no office duties, to attend the auctions in Calcutta -- the auction-marts are a sort of lounge, and to many people they furnish the main interest of life. I was foolish enough to attend a few of them myself, and one day I made a purchase of five hundred rupees worth of books, the greater part of which were Persian manuscripts, of which I can scarcely decypher a letter. But I assure you, Harry, that I have had a design ever since I arrived in the country to set to work vigorously at the Oriental languages, but somehow I have not advanced any further than the act of spreading the Persian manuscripts and my dictionaries out on the table, and purchasing some Indian ink. Some day or other, I hope that I shall get a little further than this, for, like most other young gentlemen on first arriving in the country, I have set my heart on a staff appointment, and am only at present weighing the respective advantages of the residency of Lucknow, and the head of the Secreteriat department. At present the latter weighs the heaviest.

"I told you, I think, in my letter from the Cape, of my adventures with the long cavalry officer, Mr. Drawlincourt, on board ship. We never had it out after all, for twice the long cornet was missing, and the second time, he not only forgot to keep his engagement, but he lost his passage in the ship, and very glad we were all of us to get rid of him you may be sure. Whether this happened by accident or design I do not pretend to say; but, however, he has arrived now -- at least I have seen his name in a list of passengers, belonging to a ship now coming up the river. To tell you the truth, I have very considerable doubts of the gallant cornet's pugnacious desires -- I suppose though that I must give him a chance, and for this purpose, as soon as the vessel is arrived off the ghaut, I shall send Julian Jenks to inform him that, if he is still of the same mind as he was, I am always to be found at Dum-Dum. After having horsewhipped him so soundly, I cannot well do less, Harry. My friends, the Miss Gowanspecs, have turned out the most atrocious flirts in Calcutta, but as they are certainly very pretty girls, I dare say that they will succeed before long in ensnaring some thoughtless inhabitant of Writers'-buildings into the perpetration of matrimony. Their aunt, Mrs. Parkinson, with whom I had a somewhat singular adventure, is bent upon getting them off her hands, and as she is one of the most skilful manoeuvres in India, or any other part of the world, I dare say that she will very soon be successful. I hope so, for the girls' sake; and it really will not break my heart.

"I do not know that I have very much more to tell you. We are now in the midst of what is called the cold weather in these parts, but the days are very much like what we call the dog-days in England. My time is principally occupied, when not in Calcutta, with firing off guns, playing at cricket, and mounting guard, as a pleasing variety. My health is very good at present; but I am not what I was in England, and my cheeks are beginning to assume a very respectable white-papery tinge. I shall direct this to my father, as I dare say you will have left the (En. Nas. before it reaches the dear old shores of Great Britain. Good bye, Harry, and believe me ever,

"Your affectionate brother,

"P. P.

"P. S. -- I think that I told you in my letter from the Cape, something about a poor, unfortunate fellow-passenger and old schoolfellow of mine named Doleton. I have just seen, in one of the papers, at the mess, his death recorded amongst the 'Domestic Occurrences.' 'Died suddenly, at -- abad, Ensign Doleton, of the 93rd N. I., only son of Colonel Gregory Doleton, commanding that regiment.' Poor fellow! and yet, perhaps, it was a happy release, for it is very certain that he could never have enjoyed life with a soul made up of fear, and a body in an eternal tremor. How I pitied the poor wretch always! I almost think that in his place I should have welcomed death, if it had come in a serene guise, with pleasure.

"Your's again, "P. P."

"Dum-Dum January 4, 1834."

Peregrine had just folded and addressed his letter, congratulating himself all the time on the notable feat of industry he had performed, when Julian Jenks came singing into the room, in a pair of very dirty boots and trousers, a flushed face, and his shirt-sleeves. He had just returned from what he called a "run" with the veterinary surgeon's "bobbery pack," and was highly elated at the circumstance of its having "been a capital good one."

"I say, Jenks, I want to speak to you," observed Peregrine Pultuney.

"Very good, go a-head," returned Mr. Jenks. "Have you popped the question to your cousin?"

"Certainly not, and the matter I have to discourse upon is nothing of that tender nature, but relates to its very opposite, murder and sudden death."

"Bless my soul," exclaimed Julian, "you frighten me."

"Don't alarm yourself," continued Peregrine, "I was going to tell you that the redoubtable long Cornet Drawlincourt is in a ship that's working up the river, and so, as a matter of course* you will have to visit him on his arrival."

"I visit him!" ejaculated Mr. Jenks.

"Of course, Jenks -- as my friend -- I must give him the option, you know, of shooting me. I could not well do less after the sound flogging I administered to him."

"Well," said Jenks, "that's all very well; but I should leave it to him to make the demand."

"I don't think that," remonstrated Peregrine; "I ought at least to tell him that I am here."

"He can find out that soon enough, if he wishes," interrupted Julian.

"Ah! that's just it," rejoined Peregrine Pultuney. "I don't think that he does wish it -- no more indeed do I, my good fellow, for the freshness of the thing has worn off, and I have no horsewhipping to efface. But then, mark you this, he is just the fellow to say, at some future time, that I hid myself from his vengeance -- that I was close to him, but would not discover myself -- and all that sort of thing. Think of this, Jenks, and then say if I am not right."

"I think you are," replied Mr. Jenks.

"Very good; then you will acquaint him with my whereabouts."

"Certainly, when he arrives; and if ever he says any thing against you afterwards, I will horsewhip him soundly on my own account."

"Bravo!" exclaimed Peregrine; "and now listen to my second item of intelligence -- poor Doleton is dead."

"You don't say so;" cried Julian Jenks; "and pray, how did he die?"

"Suddenly," returned Peregrine.

Our hero did not know any thing more than this about the death of the nervous youth. Alas! how many sad histories have been contained in that word "suddenly;" and yet Doleton's was the saddest of all.

CHAPTER XIII.

Which follows the sad Fortunes of the Nervous Youth, and treats largely of his Besetting Infirmity.

Some days, nay weeks, elapsed before Peregrine Pultuney became acquainted even with the leading features of poor Doleton's melancholy history; but not on that account shall we delay the recital of them -- the task is too sad a one to be postponed by us, and so we shall at once unburden ourselves.

As Colonel Doleton's leave of absence was, of course, limited, he did not, after the arrival of the Hastings, remain any longer in Calcutta than sufficed for him to get permission for his son to do duty with his own regiment, and to procure for the unfortunate boy all the equipments necessary for a young officer on first entering the army.

But short as was their stay in the City of Palaces, the colonel, some time before quitting it, had discovered the full extent of his son's infirmity; and the discovery, instead of filling his soul with sorrow and pity for his wretched offspring, and causing him to bend all the energies of his mind to the eradication, by gentle and soothing means, of the ulcerous sore that had spread itself so widely over, and eaten so deeply into the poor boy's moral frame, that the least contact or attrition of the world was to him a terror and a pain, and life to him one long agony -- instead, we say, of trying, by a soothing process of parental tenderness, to eradicate this fell disease, the father's soul was filled with bitterness and disgust, and he strove to scrape out the ulcer with a scalpel. What the wretched youth suffered beneath this mode of treatment no words can adequately express -- and from a father too! He had dreaded his nurses, he had dreaded his first schoolmaster, he had dreaded divers of his school-fellows, with their masks and their beatings -- he had dreaded the long cornet on board the Hastings; but he had never dreaded a human being half so much as he dreaded Colonel Gregory Doleton.

It is probable that the colonel did not know this; and we would fain give him credit for not wantonly inflicting torture upon his son. But he was a severe harsh man, and poor Doleton was not the only person by many who regarded the behaudar with awe. The officers of the regiment he commanded hated him, and the sepoys feared him to a man. He was a brave soldier -- had distinguished himself in action -- had more than once led a storming column, and had more than once been severely wounded. He did not know what fear was in his own person, and could make no allowances for it in another. But he was grievously mistaken, when he thought it was possible to bully his son out of the constitutional timidity that had afflicted him throughout long years. His system was a very strange one -- we know not what to call it, unless we say that it was one of counter-irritation; but its effects were the very reverse of what the colonel anticipated, if he had.any anticipations at all; for by working on the poor boy's fears as he did, he only made him ten times more fearful. It was of no use in the world to endeavour to habituate one like Doleton to thoughts of danger, for the further the attempt proceeded, the further was the unhappy youth from acquiring the coolness and the confidence which he so much lacked. Colonel Doleton talked of battle and sieges -- of the Nepaul war, and the dangers to which he had been exposed at Jhytuk and Maloun -- of advancing against the enemies' stockades under a brisk fire of musketry, which strewed the hill with corpses on every side of him -- of receiving a deep spear wound in his thigh and a sabre cut across the cheek -- "all nothing," as he said, "mere nothing -- hope you'll see many such scenes -- and enjoy them too. Who would be a soldier, if not to see blood and to sniff carnage in action -- who?"

But on poor Doleton all this had an effect very far from inspiriting -- -he sat, with his clasped hands resting on his quaking knees, gazing at his father with a blank expression of agony upon his long pale face -- whilst ever and anon his lips quivered, and he was on the point of saying something, but either he could not speak, or he thought it better to remain silent, lest he should commit himself by betraying his fears.

The station for which they were bound was in the furthermost regions of the north-west provinces, and the first, indeed the greater part of their journey was to have been performed by water, in a very comfortable pinnace, which the colonel had hired for the occasion. Whilst on the river, the father did not fail to point out to the notice of his son the corpses floating down the stream, the alligators in the muddy creeks, the skulls and white sun-bleached bones that so plentifully bestrewed the margin of the river; and he did this too, as he thought, wisely -- anxious to accustom the youth to the sight of corpses, and skulls, and human bones, and the wild animals infesting the country. It was all of no use, however -- terrors they were, and terrors they remained in the eyes of the poor boy, upon whose mind, the further he advanced, the more powerfully did it become impressed that his lot was cast in a most savage country, where perils and fears of a multiform aspect were ready to beset him at every turn.

They had been nearly six weeks on the river -- that harsh father and that wretched son -- when, the period of Colonel Doleton's leave drawing near to a conclusion, it was deemed expedient to quit the boats, before half the journey was performed, and proceed onward to their destination by dawk (post). Palanquins were procured at the first large station they came to, and bearers were posted along the road, if road it can be called where road there was none, and where, in many places, the country was only not quite impassable. The rains had ceased, to be sure, and the floods had subsided -- but still poor Doleton thought it was impossible that he should ever reach his home in safety -- that home after which he had yearned so long, yet yearned with mingled feelings of hope and awe; for none ever thirsted more than he after the soothing tenderness of parental affection, and never had filial longings such as these, been mixed up with so great a leaven of nameless awe -- so great a dread of something, not to be defined, but vaguely terrible nevertheless. Well! one part of the trial was over -- he had met his father -- and been disappointed. Where was the soothing tenderness -- the gentle, but firm support? Alas! in the bitterness of his heart, he could not but acknowledge to himself that Colonel Gregory Doleton, with his shaggy eyebrows, his dark eyes, his large whiskers, and his commanding figure, could never be a father to him -- to any one lacking support. Had he been a fine, dashing, high-spirited youth, it would have been different; but as it was -- he had a mother still, and a ray of hope gleamed upon his soul.

There was something, to the poor fellow, awful in the dawk-travelling -- the night-work more especially, and they seldom travelled by day -- the glare of the torches, the wild aspect of the jungles through which they passed, the shrieking of the jackals, and other terrors were there to appal the nerve-shaken youth. It was very well for him, when his father's palanquin was alongside of his own -- he felt then secure, protected; but when it happened, and happen it did, not seldom, that owing to his father's weight and his own lightness, the palanquin of the former was left considerably in the rear, the poor youth's heart was filled with terrors and misgivings, and his imagination conjured up a host of evils -- such as being carried into the heart of a wood, robbed and murdered, or else left a prey to the wild beasts and the cannibal birds in the jungle.

One morning, he awoke out of an uneasy sleep in his palanquin, haunted by dreams, in which he never once lost the sense of his own identity, and the thousand perils surrounding it, to find himself stationary in his wooden box on the ground, in the middle of what to him seemed a dense forest, deserted by his bearers and utterly alone. Crawling out of his palanquin, he looked around him and saw nothing that bore the semblance of animal life, but a pariah dog, a bird or two, and the tail of a snake creeping into a bush. It was early morning, the sun had not yet risen, and the birds had scarcely began to make their matutinal disturbances. The stillness was awful to Doleton -- he might call for ever, he thought, without a chance of being heard. It was but too evident that those traitorous men had left him to perish in the jungle -- to be torn to pieces by tigers, or gored to death by wild buffaloes. He stood, or rather crouched, rooted to the ground; for he had not the power to raise himself erectly, much less to explore the forest, in search of some traces of humanity -- of his father, or of his perfidious bearers. He was lost -- it was all over with him -- an overwhelming sense of his fearful position had taken possession of his soul -- it was too much for him to bear up against, and uttering a loud cry, he sunk from his kneeling position, flat on his face like a corpse.

In little more than a minute he was in his father's arms -- it might have been an hour, a day, a year, for any thing Doleton knew to the contrary, before he opened his eyes and faintly articulated, "What is it?" He looked around him wildly; there were the trees and the bushes, and the first gleams of the morning sun just visible above the horizon -- there too, was the palanquin beside him, but bearers he could nowhere see -- somebody held him -- somebody was lifting him from the ground -- a vague recollection came across his mind of reading something about the Thugs -- a set of people, who lie in wait for travellers to strangle them for the sake of their money -- could that be his fate -- no, a voice spoke to him -- the gruff tones of his father's voice -- he was safe, and he breathed again freely.

"What on earth is the matter with you, Charles?"

"I don't know -- where have I been -- what has become of us -- I thought I was alone."

"What is the matter with you?' repeated the colonel -- "what have you been doing -- what have you seen?"

"I don't know," faltered the wretched youth -- "pray don't be angry with me. I couldn't help it -- I saw nothing -- I have done nothing -- I only thought that they had left me alone to die in the jungle -- I did not think you were near -- if I had known that I should not have been -- I should not have done as I have done -- but, where are the bearers gone?"

"Why, to drink some water, and to wash themselves in a tank hard by -- here comes some of them, so make haste and get into your palki, for we must never let the natives see us in this state. What will they think of the 'conquerors of India,' if they see them. blubbeiing about being left alone for a minute, and shaking all over about nothing."

"Forgive me, father" -- sobbed the poor boy. "I know I am very weak."

"There then -- that will do -- get in," -- and the unfortunate youth crept into his palanquin, only too glad to escape observation, and to be left alone to his sorrow.

But a more grievous trial awaited him still, for as the travellers approached the termination of their journey, it was theirs to pass over a tract of country, celebrated in history for the battles it had witnessed -- the country of the Dooab, through which the army under Lord Lake had marched, in its victorious career; and as Colonel Gregory Doleton, then a mere boy, had formed an insignificant fraction of that army -- as he had then and there first seen blood and sniffed powder, it is no wonder that when in the neighbourhood of Agra, Allyghur, Bhurtpore, and Delhi, he should have indulged in a thirty years' retrospect, and regaled his son, at every halting place, with a true and lively history of the delights (or horrors) of that memorable campaign -- the most brilliant certainly of all that have adorned the annals of British Indian warfare.

One day, making their dinner in a dâk-bungalow, the colonel was more than usually loquacious. It was very hot, and he had taken an extra tumbler, perhaps two, of cold brandy-pauni, the best beverage by far for a dawk trip, and whether it was, that the spirituous fluid sharpened his memory or enhanced his good-humour, we do not take upon us to say; but, it is certain, that there was no end to his stories about the assault of Allyghur, the carnage at Bhurtpore, and the capture of the Jumna Musjeed. Poor Doleton was, at all events, a good listener -- he never interrupted his father, except with occasional exclamations of "how horrid!" or, "how dreadful!" or, "Oh! how could you do it?" whenever the gallant colonel indulged in a little pleasant egotism, and spoke grandiloquently of his own performances. He thought it was all very terrible indeed, and inwardly thanked God, that he had arrived in a season of profound peace.

But the serenity of mind induced by this consideration was, alas! of a fleeting nature; for, when the colonel had waxed tired of talking about the past, he began to indulge in pleasing visions of the future, and, with a face radiant with delight, informed his son, that there was likely to be another war in Nepaul.

"You don't -- you can't mean," stammered poor Doleton, his heart dying within him as he spoke; "I thought it was all peace -- you don't mean war, do you, father? -- dear father, you are only in jest."

"Jest, boy!" exclaimed the colonel, sleeking his dark whiskers. It will not be jest, I assure you, for the enemy, when the 83d regiment marches upon Khatamandu -- jest, boy! why should I jest about things, the reality of which is so earnestly to be desired?"

"I thought," faltered the wretched youth, "I thought, perhaps -- but I beg your pardon -- and there is war -- really war -- but not here -- not near our station, father."

"Not near us! -- stuff, boy, you don't know the geography of these parts; we are close upon the Nepaul Frontier; not near the capital, it is true, but close to the old seat of war -- close to the Western Hills, upon which just twenty years ago Ochterloney and Gillespie led their armies -- not send us! of course they will, if they send any one, and the gallant 83d, my boy, has ever been distinguished in the field -- there then look at the map, and see what a favourable position is ours."

The colonel took from a drawer in his palanquin, a small folded map of India, on which he had marked, in red ink, the various marches he had made with his regiment since he entered the service; and laying it out on his knees, he desired his son to observe the position of the cantonment, for which they were bound, and its proximity to the norwestern frontier of Nepaul. Poor Doleton turned his face upon the map, and answered "yes" to his father's queries, but he saw nothing but a confused mixture of red, blue, and yellow, and the outline of his father's finger. There was a film over his eyes, and he could not read a single word in the minute characters engraved upon the map.

"There now, you see" continued the colonel. "We are just a little to the west of the Nepaul Frontier -- the green you see is Nepaul. We can soon be over that line of hills, soon right amongst the Ghoorkas -- we took that territory from them in the last war. This time I hope we shall plant our colours on Katamandu -- come, my boy, fill your tumbler and let us drink to a bloody war."

The poor boy endeavoured to obey his father, but his hand shook quite paralytically, and he spilt the water over the table.

"What's the matter?" exclaimed the father, starting up, and letting the map fall to the ground, "bless my soul, what's the matter, your hand shakes, as though you had got the palsy, and your face is as pale as a ghost's, what the devil's the matter with the boy?"

"Nothing, sir -- nothing, indeed -- nothing is the matter with me, I assure you."

"Is it nothing that makes you shake all over like that? come now, don't make a gaby of yourself, drink up your brandy-and-water. I'll take care that you shall see some service, before very long -- you will soon get accustomed to these things. Think, my boy, think of the glory of escalading a hill-fort, and being the first to reach the summit -- to fight your way through the black rebels and strew the hill-side with their carcasses -- would you not like that, say would you not like that? -- and by the powers above, sir, whether you like it or not, the first sword that is drawn against us, you shall be sent forward to oppose -- you shall, sir, I give you my word."

This was a little too much for Doleton; the idea of escalading a hill-fort and making a ladder of the enemies' carcasses, was so far beyond any thing that the poor boy had ever dreamt of in his philosophy, that it fairly upset him at once. Fighting had ever been his favourite aversion; a stand up with a small boy, not half his age had been to him as yet the most dreadful thing, of which he had ever had any practical experience; but to fight against men, real men, savage men, Ghoorkas in hill forts, with swords, spears, and twisted things poisoned at the tip, was a great deal more than he could stand the thought of. One wild look he turned upon his father; and, in an instant, he had flung himself at the feet of the astonished colonel, sobbing out, "I couldn't do it -- I couldn't indeed -- spare me, father; but I am a coward!"

The remainder of the journey was performed in almost total silence. The father seemed to have abandoned all idea of ever reclaiming his lost sonHad the youth proved himself to be a liar, a hypocrite, a thief, a drunkard, the lowest of all low scoundrels, it would have been nothing -- but a coward! His son a coward! The son of Colonel Gregory Doleton, of the 83d regiment, a coward! -- it was almost more than he could bear.

But they reached home -- and home it was even to that poor unhappy youth, that wretched victim of a deserted childhood; yes, home, for there was a mother -- and such a mother to greet him. He forgot every thing -- his own disgrace, his father's anger, the terror of the rumoured war -- all were forgotten in that mother. He had never known what real kindness was; the nearest approach to it that he had ever seen, had been in the conduct of Peregrine Pultuney; but a woman, and a mother -- his own mother, how different! There were gleams of sunshine even for him, piercing the dark cheerless places of his soul.

Nor was the mother all that made home, home indeed -- nay, Paradise -- to him; for he had one little lovely sister, a child about four months old, very delicate, but very beautiful, and the only one beside himself, of many that had been born, which had ever reached so advanced an age.

And how the poor youth's heart did wind itself around that mother and that sister. He was safe with them; he knew, at all events, that they would never despise him. Even if they were made aware of his infirmity, they were women; and courage with women is not the one thing needful, as with men -- at least not with a mother and a sister; a maiden might look for valour in her lover, but it was nothing in a brother or a son. So, at least, thought poor Doleton, and there was a world of solace in the thought. His mother's kindness knew no bounds; the room wherein she sat was a sanctuary always. Gentle words and loving looks were his aliment there; and how sweet it was to sit for hours beside his mother, with his darling little sister on his knee.

But, there were a multitude of little evils too, as there always must be, to mar this happiness. There were the parades to be attended, and the duties to be learned, and the visits to be paid to his brother officers, and the introduction at the mess -- for the 83d had a mess, and Colonel Doleton insisted, upon principle, that his son should become a member of it. As may easily be expected, the poor fellow made but a sorry hand at the musket, and the patience of the serjeant-major would have been fairly exhausted, if his pupil had not been the commanding officer's son, which, of course, altered the case very much. The mess, too, he did not like; his father was unpopular, and there were not wanting those who were mean enough to pay off their scores upon the son; he was, too, such an essential griff, that it was almost impossible to help roasting him, and as it was soon perceived that he would bear any thing without an effort at retaliation, they were not very particular about their modes of insult and annoyance in the absence of the colonel. Though, indeed, had that worthy been aware of the ordeal through which his poor son was passing he would not have taken any pains, at all events for the boy's sake, to prevent it; on the contrary, he would have thought it was good for such a youth, and left him to fight it out by himself.

It was not long, moreover, before poor Doleton's infirmity was manifested to his brother officers, and then rumours of wars reached him every time that he entered the mess-room. It is a remarkable fact that those people, who can be insulted with impunity, are insulted fifty times oftener than any body else; and so it was with poor Doleton; but insults, rumours of wars, and every thing were forgotten, when, after slinking away early from the mess-table, he returned home just in time to drink tea with his mother, and to spend an hour with her before going to bed.

Now it so happened, that two or three weeks after their arrival at bad, Colonel Doleton received an order to proceed by dâk to a neighbouring station, to sit as president of a general court-martial. Our poor friend -- for friend we must call him, in spite of his sad infirmity -- felt no small measure of inward satisfaction when his father announced his intended departure. All now would be so happy at home. There would be no drawback to his domestic delight; the greater part of every day would, at all events be secured to him in bliss. He would still, it is true, be condemned to his lessons under the sergeant, and be still obliged to attend the mess sometimes, though he thought he might shirk it occasionally. It was a good thing -- certainly a good thing; but he durst not have hinted as much for the world.

So Colonel Doleton went; but the promised bliss was a season of the intensest misery, crowned at last with a most fearful catastrophe. The colonel went; and he had seen the last of his son -- he returned, but to look upon his grave.

CHAPTER XIV.

In which the History of the Nervous Youth is brought to its Termination.

It would be very common-place in us to commence this chapter with any elaborate moralities relating to the vanity of human wishes and the destructibility of earthly hopes; but certain it is that never was there a more sorrowful illustration of this vanity and this destructibility, than was embodied in the history of poor Doleton; who had thoroughly laid himself out for two or three weeks of supreme enjoyment, and in less than two or three hours had discovered that he was the most miserable creature in the world.

Colonel Gregory Doleton went -- but before stepping into his palanquin he expressly enjoined his son to dine at the mess that evening, and indeed every evening -- not to be sitting all day, he said, on mamma's lap, and drinking slops at mamma's elbow; to be more of a man, and dine with his brother-officers -- drink beer and brandy-pauni -- get drunk, if he liked -- any thing that denoted manliness -- "Above all," continued the colonel, "don't allow yourself to be laughed at. Major Blab informs me that they roast you at the mess -- won't do, sir -- won't do at all. If you once permit yourself to be roasted, you'll repent it for the remainder of your life. When I was a griffin, Charles, I'll be cursed if they didn't try to roast me; but it didn't act -- not in the least; for by Jove, sir, I split the forehead of a saucy brevet-captain with an empty beer bottle one fine night, and no one ever roasted me again -- ha! ha! I can see the blood now pouring down upon his white jacket -- no plan like it, Charles -- none like it -- trust to the empty bottle, and you are safe."

Tendering this very excellent paternal advice, Colonel Gregory Doleton shook his son by the hand, and shortly afterwards slid into his palki, where he beguiled the time for the first hour with pleasant reminiscences of the blood that poured down on the brevet-captain's white jacket; after which he fell into a sort of a slumber, and dreamt that he was again splitting his friend's skull with a beer-bottle -- a delusion upon his part which had the effect of awaking him, for he struck the panel of his palanquin so vehemently with his fist, that he discovered, on the following morning, he had broken his knuckles, very much to his personal discomfort.

In the mean time our poor friend with the weak nerves was sitting on thorns at the regimental mess-table. Never had his brother-officers been more supremely disagreeable. It does not say much for the officers of the 83d, but it is certainly true that they took advantage of the colonel's absence from cantonments to trot out his son most unmercifully. One of them, a youth a little younger than Doleton, but just one step before him in the regiment, a forward, bullying, bragging youth, just fresh from a public-school, was even more cruelly ungenerous than the rest; and yet they were all cruelly ungenerous. This Ensign Hector Hardyman was by nature a bully, and, being such, he had a particular dislike to being bullied himself. He was bullied though by Colonel Doleton, who took particular delight in taking down any self-sufficient youth, who appeared to think himself a monstrous fine fellow, and to give himself airs in the regiment. Now Hardyman certainly did this; and it was only on the very morning of Colonel Doleton's departure that that worthy had inspected the regiment, and halted all the eight companies, as they were marching by in review order at slow time, to desire Ensign Hardyman to fall out and salute by himself, until he could do it a little better; whilst the whole regiment was standing at ease and enjoying the crestfallen youth's discomfiture, as he marched past the colonel some half-a-dozen times, strenuously exerting himself to satisfy his commanding officer, but failing most lamentably every time. "Try it again, Mr. Hardyman, try it again," said the colonel, whilst the poor ensign heartily wished both him and the salute at the devil; and nine-tenths of his brother-officers were placidly reflecting that it was the finest sight they had ever seen in their lives.

It was not to be supposed that Ensign Hardyman would forget this insult in a day; and, indeed, had he been inclined, in the plenitude of his amiability, so to do, he would not have been suffered to consign it to oblivion; for no sooner did he enter the mess-house that evening, than numberless were the inquiries of "Well, Hardyman; how are you off for salutes?" and "How's your right arm, Hardyman?" together with imitations of the colonel's manner of saying "Try it again, Mr. Hardyman -- try it just once more." All of which things, as may readily be believed, lashed the ensign's temper, which was never of the best, into a fearful state of inquietude and excitability, and before dinner had commenced he was ready to shoot the whole company, by proxy; but it is a remarkable fact that when he looked around him he saw but one person, to whom he dared talk about shooting at all, and that one was poor Doleton, who had never offended him in any thing, but in being the son of the commanding-officer of the regiment, and that he would fain. not have been, for more reasons than one.

However, the opportunity was a glorious one, and Ensign Hardyman made the most of it. Poor Doleton! -- he took it all most meekly; every now and then turning a beseeching glance upon his tormentor, or else endeavouring to get up a sort of thin laugh, intended to express that he thought it very funny -- though it was evident to every body that the funniness was somewhat identical with that of the bone, which causes when struck an acute sensation of agony, and yet goes by a name which would lead a person to suppose that the percussion was the pleasantest thing in the world.

It was a pity for Doleton; it is a pity and ever will be for all like him, that meekness and poorness of spirit, nay cowardice if you will, though amongst the chiefest of the Christian virtues, are never acknowledged by Christian men to be virtues or any thing like them. It is a pity, we say -- and not only for the judged, but for the judges -- that the poor in spirit -- the gentle-hearted -- the much-forbearing are looked upon as the scum and refuse of the world, and pointed at by the finger of scorn everywhere; not, however, that there was any merit in Doleton's forbearance, for the poor fellow could not help himself, but it would have been just the same had the youth been a martyr to principle instead of constitution; for there is little toleration in the world, and none at all for the man who fights not. As to the poor creature whose history we are now recording, his patience would have been truly angelical had it been based upon a more exalted foundation, for he smiled at the cutting jests that assailed him, and in spite of his father's admonitions, his hand never wandered towards the empty beer bottle. It is possible that he may have thought once or twice of the brevetcaptain's split skull and the blood pouring down on the white jacket and waistcoat; but if he did, it is certain that he was not seized with a desire to be an actor in a similar tragedy; his soul recoiled from the dreadful thought, and the most that he even wished for was to immerse Ensign Hardyman for a few minutes in the tank behind the mess-bungalow. This would have afforded him some satisfaction; but he never thought of perpetrating it for a moment. He smiled on -- they were ghastly, writhing smiles, it is true; but he thought that they answered his purpose -- thought that they made him look as though he were enjoying the fun and taking it all very composedly.

But before dinner was over matters had proceeded to a pitch, which poor Doleton's powers of endurance, great as they were, could not surmount. They had attacked him with weapons of almost every description -- laughed at him, threatened him, filled him with fears. But he had borne it; almost every nerve within him was quivering with intense emotion, but he did not utter a word of complaint or retaliation -- he laughed when the rest laughed and was silent. There was one nerve, however, which had not been touched, and that the most sensitive of all. But the trial was not yet come.

Come it did though at last -- jarringly -- crushingly, upon the poor youth. There was an assistant-surgeon in medical charge of the regiment, a bachelor, and rather a favourite. He was a fine, good-looking man, and was very often at the commandant's, much oftener than any body else; and Doleton had perceived, though without thinking there was any thing remarkable in it, that the doctor and his mother were on a very familiar footing, talked freely together, and seemed pleased at meeting one another. He had never suspected, however, that their intimacy had in any way passed the bounds of decorum, he looked upon his mother as an angel of perfection, and to have doubted it would have been death to him. His horror, therefore, may easily be conceived, when it is stated that the following conversation actually passed in the presence of the unhappy youth. Had he fallen naked from a housetop on an inverted harrow, the anguish would have been as nothing to this.

"What has become of Harcourt to-night?" asked Major Blab, who was sitting nearly opposite to Doleton.

"I don't know," said one. "I saw him, this evening, near the colonel's."

"Did you?" asked another. "Ah ! I suppose, taking leave of the old gentleman -- very natural -- for they hate one another like bricks."

We do not undertake to say how bricks hate one another; but it is very certain that the last few words spoken made poor Doleton prick up his ears.

"Yes;" remarked a third, "he is always there; what a rum dog it is -- always sure to be somewhere near the colonel's, although he hates him, I know he does, with all his heart."

"Nothing rum about that," cried Ensign Hardyman; "it doesn't follow that because he hates the colonel, he should hate every body belonging to him. Besides the colonel, thank God, has left us for a little; and Harcourt"

"Try that again, Mr. Hardyman; try that once more," sneered the adjutant of the regiment, who was rather a supporter of the colonel's, and who had a supreme contempt for the ensign.

"Ha! ha!" laughed Mr. Hardyman, pretending to think that it was all a very capital joke, but in reality highly excited. "Ha! ha! if Harcourt came on parade, he would be spited just as much as I have been, and more deservedly too, ha! ha! If I had been so much at the colonel's in his absence, if I had been -- ha! ha! making the old boy jealous for the last ten months, I should have expected it, and no mistake."

"Right arm salute -- to -- to!" shouted the adjutant, highly amused.

"Salute! d -- n it all," cried the incensed ensign, "the old dog spites me, like sin. Salute! if I had been saluting his wife, like Harcourt, he might, with reason, have made me salute him, but as I have not, would not"

"Could not," suggested the adjutant.

"Could not -- psha! that I could," returned Mr. Hardyman -- "every body could, and you know it."

This was too much for Doleton -- his own mother, -- his angel mother -- his beloved mother, thus to be spoken of by such a whipper-snapper. Twice he glanced at an empty beer bottle before him; twice he stretched out his hand towards it, his father's words ringing in his ears all the while, his mother's sweet image flitting before him with a radiant smile on her face, just such a smile as had always greeted him -- him, who now heard her vilely insulted, without dashing his fist in the face of the insulter. But what were his father's words and his mother's smile in the balance against his overwhelming cowardice?

But he spoke -- he summoned courage to speak in a low voice indistinctly. Hardyman, as we have said before, was sitting next to him, so the poor boy's words reached the ensign. Falteringly, stammeringly they issued from the mouth of the wretched youth, and syllabled "What -- do -- do -- do you mean, who -- what -- how salute my mother?"

"Right-arm salute -- to -- to -- " shouted the adjutant once again.

"No -- no -- not that," cried the ensign hastily. "Another kind of salute altogether."

"Ho -- ho! then rear rank take open order -- all officers to the front -- ten paces from the reviewing general, bring the sword slowly to the recover, right arm well extended -- "

"Not that, not that," interrupted the ensign, "nothing of that kind, at all. Harcourt does not salute in that way, his salutes are not sword but lip-salutes, kisses, sir -- yes, kisses, Mr. Doleton."

The nervous youth started from his seat, but in a moment he had sunk back again, pale, quivering, with clenched teeth -- such misery written on his face! The whole room seemed to whirl round, he could see nothing but a huge black bottle, which seemed to tempt him to grasp it, and an ocean of blood stretching out at his feet; but he was tied and bound; he could do nothing, his arm hung down by his side, and he felt incapable of raising it. A confused noise was in his ears, as of many voices, not of laughter, but alarm, and presently he became sensible of a sharp, cutting pain, as though his fingers were being severed from his hand; this roused him a little; he looked up, and Major Blab was standing behind him.

"Put down that knife, Doleton, and come with me," said the major, in a voice gentle but determined.

"What knife -- eh?" asked the wretched youth. "Take that Mr. Hardyman away from me; I cannot bear the sight of him -- there, I don't know what I have been doing."

The poor fellow had unwittingly taken a knife into his hand, perhaps, urged by a sort of unrecognized impulse, so transitory that the seizure of the knife was the only act that had resulted from it. He had not attempted to strike a blow with it, and was easily disarmed -- himself being the only sufferer.

"Come with me," continued Major Blab, who was the senior officer present, and the most determined busy-body in the corps -- "just come with me into the next room -- there now -- we are alone here," for poor Doleton had followed the major, passive as a lamb, into the billiard-room -- "we are alone here; and, being so, I must tell you that this sort of thing will never do -- you must not use knives at the mess-table, or think of stabbing your brother-officers."

"I n-e-ever thought of it" -- stammered Doleton "never -- I don't know how I came by the knife -- but it has cut my fingers very much -- I wish you would speak to Mr. Hardyrnan -- he has no right to insult my mother."

"He has not," returned the major, "but that must be settled by you now, or by your father, when he returns; I don't know what he will say when he hears this; I should have put you both under arrest had you done so, but you ought to have knocked him off his chair."

"I -- I -- I -- perhaps I ought," faltered Doleton; "but I was so -- it is -- that is I mean so -- so -- dreadful to hear such things said of one's mother -- so horrible -- isn't is horrible? Cannot you do something to prevent his saying those dreadful things about my mother?"

"Dreadful enough, certainly," returned the major, "and all the more reason for your knocking him off his chair; but go home -- you had better go home I will speak to your father, when he returns; and we shall see what he says about the matter."

The poor youth staggered out of the mess-bungalow, scarcely knowing what he was doing. Bareheaded he tottered through the darkness, directed by instinct to his own home, for he hardly thought whither he was going. There was a rushing noise in his brain and his heart throbbed, like a giant's heart, in his frail body, as he entered the compound of his father's house and saw the lights in the drawing-room window. This must in some measure have recalled his wandering senses, for he stood still, passed his hand across his face, and bethought himself of what he should do. He would go straight to his own chamber, he determined; he dare not face his mother just then, for the smile and the kind word and the kiss, after his cowardly conduct, would have been too much for him, too full of reproach; the kiss! -- and at that moment a brief thought of overwhelming bitterness entered his soul. Could it be possible that what he had heard was true? This thought turned him to stone and he stood statue-like upon the garden-walk -- all wretchedness; but it was only for a minute, and he flung aside the unworthy thought, cursing his deep ingratitude for harbouring it.

He moved onward, and when within a few yards of the house, he saw a dark figure emerging from it -- not a servant -- it was no one in the Asiatic costume -- the tight fitting dress of the European was upon him; and as the man passed hurriedly by, he started at seeing Doleton in his path, and as he turned aside, the light from the moon, which had just risen from behind a cloud, streamed full upon the face of Harcourt.

Here was confirmation strong -- stronger than Holy Writ. It was all true then -- all true -- the damned spot was upon his mother's brow -- and desolation was his lot for ever.

Pale, wild, staring like a drunken man, poor Doleton reeled into the drawing-room; and met his mother just entering from her bed-chamber. She started, as well she might, at seeing the ghastly aspect of her son. "What is the matter with you, Charles, what ails you?" she asked in her own sweet, honied voice of kindness.

"Nothing, nothing -- I only thought I saw -- oh! God how dreadful!"

"What have you seen! -- speak, my boy -- you frighten me -- there, never mind -- sit down, it was only your fancy."

"No -- no -- no -- I'm sure I saw him -- Mr. Harcourt passed me in the garden -- I saw the moon upon his face,"

Mrs. Doleton turned away her head in evident agitation; and her unhappy son continued, in a broken voice, whilst the big tears dropped down his cheeks. "Good night -- good night -- God bless you -- I say God bless you, as usual, -- I will pray for you -- good night."

He saw that his mother was agitated -- confused. She looked at him in wonderment and sorrow. Paler than usual and altered as to the expression of her countenance she appeared to him, when he looked into her face; and when she assured him that he must have been mistaken about seeing Mr. Harcourt in the compound, he shook his head sorrowfully, hurried into his bed-room, dismissed his bearer, and bolted the door.

All alone, he threw himself upon his bed and wept bitterly for some time; but the plentiful tears afforded him no relief, and he rose from the couch in agony of spirit; what was to be done, what escape was there from the phalanx of sorrows that hemmed him on every side? What had he now to lean upon? not so much as a broken reed. A savage father, a fallen mother, and a crowd of enemies -- of persecutors. Something must be done, he knew; and yet he felt himself powerless in his extremity. He knew that he ought to fight; at all events to call Harcourt to account, and if Harcourt cleared himself by his explanation, why, it behoved him to call out Hardyman for insolently maligning his mother. There was a duel to be fought, either way; and if not fought, there was the anger, the scorn, the execrations of Colonel Gregory Doleton to be braved. Major Blab was sure to inform him of what his wretched son had left undone -- of his dastardly, miserable quiescence, beneath the attacks of that whipper-snapper Hardyman; what then was to be done? Death and worse than death seemed to glare at him from every corner of the room.

Again he threw himself upon his bed and hid his face upon the pillow, again he wept bitterly; and this time over the fall of his poor mother, whom he had looked upon as an angel of light. Was it really thus, had she in truth become a mark for the obscene jests of young officers at a mess-table -- oh! wretched -- wretched! -- and he to sanction the ribald jest by sitting quietly beside the insolent jester, instead of dashing a bottle in his face; whether true or false he ought to have done it, and oh! how he wished that he had; it would have caused him to be put under arrest, both him and his opponent; and no duel could have been the consequence. Besides the satisfaction of the thing -- there was not another son in the world, who would have heard such terrible insinuations as those put forth by Ensign Hardyman without dragging the insolent scoundrel from his seat and stamping upon his face and eyes. But he -- coward, mean, pitiful poltroon that he was -- had heard it all without striking a blow.

He asked himself again and again, whether he was fit for such a life as ours, and earnestly did he long for death -- death, tranquil, beautiful, and in repose, as he had seen it on monuments of marble. But would not death in any shape be preferable to such a life as he was destined to lead -- better death than the prospect of death -- the terrible dread of an impending tragedy. Horrors were there on every side of him, and by one way only could he escape from the grinning fiends, and that way was through the ebon gate of death. He would do it -- yes he would do it, the instruments of destruction were within his reach; why then not use them at once?

He started from his prostrate position and tottered towards the dressing-table. Leaning against it, for his legs shook beneath him, as though he had been seized with an ague fit, he took up a razor that was lying there; he looked at it, opened it, passed the edge lightly over the fore-finger of his left hand, and then laid it down again upon the table. The handle of the razor was stained with blood, and when Doleton perceived it, he looked at his right hand, saw it was red, and shuddered.

He remembered how it had been lacerated, and a vague idea entered his mind that he had attempted to murder somebody and would perhaps be put on trial in consequence. This was terrible -- again he took up the razor, but at that moment he caught the reflection of his face in the lookingglass dimly, for there was no other light in the room than that of an oil-wick in a tumbler; and he started at the ghastliness -- the hideous wildness of his aspect, dropped the razor and turned away his face. He could not use that instrument -- the hacking and the hewing, and the blood upon his white garments were too horrible in prospect. But he could not live -- how was it possible for him to face the morrow's light? That way madness was lying, and worse -- oh much worse than madness -- he flung himself again upon his couch.

He could not weep -- he could not pray -- he tried to do both, but failed. If he could have wept away his life, how happy it would hare been. He hid his face between his hands, but he could not shut out the ghastly congregation of images that flitted before his eyes and mocked him -- there stood Hardyman with his finger pointed, and Colonel Doleton with folded arms -- the one smiling, the other frowning -- and there sat Harcourt on the sofa with his arm round Mrs. Doleton's waist. Horror upon horror accumulated. Death in any shape was better than this.

Again Doleton rose from his couch. He had pistols, he remembered, in the room. The colonel had given them to him and made him use them -- made him practise at a mark. They were in a case, and the case was on a chest of drawers. Doleton took it thence and placed it on the table, having done which he removed the looking-glass and laid it on the couch lest he should see his face in it again. At first he could not find the key of his.pistol-case; but he searched for it slowly and uncertainly -- looking in all the most unlikely places first, on purpose to delay for a few minutes the execution of that which he might have delayed indefinitely had he wished. But he did find it at last; and he unlocked the pistol-case, took out the pair, looked at them carefully, observed a little rust on one of the barrels and tried to wipe it off with his glove. Then he examined their locks, found that they were in good order, and went again to the drawers to take out of them a little round pasteboard-box, about half full of French percussion caps. The drawer was open, and in less than a minute he had selected a couple of caps, which he placed upon an old note on his dressing-table; having done which he took his powder flask, poured a double charge into one of the pistols, rammed it down with a piece of brown paper for wadding, and then took a bullet out of a green baize bag that was hanging over his towel-horse. He looked curiously at the leaden ball -- weighed it for a few seconds between his finger and thumb -- kissed it with an idiotic smile upon his face -- dropped it into the barrel and rammed it down as though he would never have been tired of hearing the noise that the rammer-head made against the bullet; this done, he took up the other pistol, loaded it in like manner, and placed the two side by side on the table.

The next thing that he did was to open his blotting-book, take a pen and begin writing upon a sheet of Bath paper, with a shaking hand and staring eyes -- "Mother," he wrote, "I could not bear it -- it was too much for me to endure -- I could not know that and live. May God forgive you, as I do. Your wretched son, Charles."

The paper was blotted and smeared, and the writing scarcely legible for the erasures; but the unhappy youth folded and addressed it, placed his razor-case on the corner to keep it from blowing away, and then took up one of the pistols.

He put the muzzle into his mouth and placed his finger on the trigger -- one moment, and all would have been over -- a slight muscular motion, and then eternal quiescence. But he was a coward to the last -- he durst not fire -- he withdrew his hand -- he was safe, and a third time he flung himself on his bed.

And there he lay groaning, shuddering; yet he felt as if a crushing weight had just been removed from his heart. He had escaped death, he thought; and yet the death he had escaped was only one of his own seeking. He was lighter, however -- more composed in consequence of the escape; and the lesser more remote perils were almost forgotten in the thought of the great and imminent one he had avoided. There was some comfort in this -- and wretched as he was, he laid his head upon the pillow, and slept.

Yes -- that miserable youth slept -- slept for several hours, dream-haunted as he was -- slept, though a burning fever was rioting in his every vein -- slept, but only to awake again in a state more fearful than that in which he had sunk to rest. The rampant fever had mounted to his brain, and he awoke wild, terror-haunted, delirious. He remembered, and only this, that he had a dreadful purpose to accomplish, that he had loaded his pistols for self-destruction; no fears, no misgivings withheld him now; he was strong with a fever-born courage. The oil-light, in the corner of the room, was burning dimly, flickering, spluttering, for it had been consumed almost to the water. But there was light enough for the unhappy youth to see the pistols on the table, he grasped one of them -- stretched his jaws widely apart -- clutched his teeth on the barrel, and in a moment he had fallen heavily on the matted floor -- a mutilated, shattered corpse.

Never had a more fearful deed been accomplished under the impression of a more miserable error. The mother of that wretched suicide was as pure, as unspotted as the snow on the mountain top. Harcourt had been to the house, but only to see little Clara Doleton. The child had felt poorly, and had complained to her mother, who, having wept over the death-beds of so many children, experienced more uneasiness on her favourite's account than indeed the occasion warranted, and had sent off immediately for Dr. Harcourt just as he was dressing to go to the mess. Dr. Harcourt had attended one of her other children, and Mrs. Doleton felt an entire confidence in him, as well as liked him for his kindness and attention. Upon the present occasion Harcourt had spent nearly two hours by the child's bedside, watching the effect of some medicine he had administered; and just before he rose to take his departure, Mrs. Doleton had implored him not to mention little Clara's illness to her son, for she knew how the poor boy doated on his sister, and how miserable it would make him to think that there was the smallest fear of losing the child. Harcourt had promised; and it was for this reason that he had hurried past Doleton in the compound, with the hope of escaping unobserved; and it was for this reason that Mrs. Doleton had denied all knowledge of Harcourt's visit to the house. Her confusion and embarrassment were partly occasioned by the distracted state of her mind, owing to her daughter's indisposition, and partly by seeing her son so much sooner than she had expected -- so immediately after planning to deceive him. Never a very strong-minded woman, she had felt herself bewildered, and had not attempted to enter in to an explanation with her son -- one word might have absolved her, but she had not spoken it; and before the morrow night she was childless.

CHAPTER XV.

Containing a great deal of Love, Hatred, Forgiveness, and other Things of the Kind.

Returning now to Peregrine Pultuney and his associates, we trust that this chapter will not, like our last, be all shadow and misery. Dark pages there are in the book of human life; but it has mercifully been decreed that there should be an abundance of bright ones. Upon one of the darkest of the most dark it is very certain that poor Doleton's name was written; but Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks were more fortunate; they had a place amongst the bright.

The brightness, however, was more perhaps in the hearts of the young gentlemen, than in their peculiar destinies. Their minds were not easily overclouded; and Peregrine, though he was in precisely the same situation, which had filled poor Doleton with measureless fear and unutterable wretchedness, was as light-hearted and merry as a bird. It was nothing to him that the long cornet had arrived with the treasured indignation of six months within him -- nothing to him that he had an "affair" in prospect, which might, for all he knew, be laden with death.

"I'll tell you what it is, Jenks," he said, one bright cold weather morning, just after he had returned from an hour's recreation amongst wet grass, fog, and horned cattle, under the name of field battery exercises, "I'll tell you what it is, Jenks, the Wellesley must have come off the ghaut by this time, and I dare say that if we go into Calcutta this morning, we shall hear something of long Drawlincourt at Spence's."

"What a deuce of a hurry you are in," remarked Julian Jenks.

"Why," returned Peregrine "I want to have it over; I don't like to accept any invitations to dinner until I have got this business settled, for fear a disappointment should be the consequence, and my empty chair be visible at dinner, damping the spirits, as of course it would, of all the rest of the party."

"Oh!" said Jenks "you may make yourself quite safe upon that score; a subaltern more or less, whether killed by fever or bullet, can make no difference in the world to the society of Calcutta."

"But an empty chair may," interrupted Peregrine, "make a great difference to the dinner-giver; I know that Mrs. Parkinson for one, is ready to die of an uneven number. Besides, to tell you the truth, I am rather anxious to know what the long cornet has to say for himself. Where the devil could he have gone off to, just as his presence %vas so particularly wanted?"

"Why that I can't say," returned Julian Jenks; "and as for knowing, you may depend upon it that you have not the slightest chance of ever knowing the real truth of the history. Do you think it probable that the long skulker will let you into the truth? No, no, my good fellow, never think of it; you may just as well save yourself the trouble of asking the question, for you are sure to get nothing but a good fat lie by way of answer."

Having delivered himself of these observations, which, it must be acknowledged, showed no small acquaintance with humanity, at least such humanity as was Cornet Drawlincourt's, Mr. Jenks, or Lieutenant Jenks as we ought to call him, began to call vociferously in one quarter for coffee, and in another for cigars and a light; and having at length, by dint of no inconsiderable pulmonary exertion, (for a bachelor's servants are always out of the way,) summoned a khitmudgar and bearer to his assistance, he established himself in the verandah quite comfortably, with the coffee and cigars on a tea-poy before him, and the sun shining full upon him -- for a cold-weather sun, at seven o'clock in the morning, is rather to be coveted than eschewed.

Peregrine Pultuney was not long about following the very excellent example set by his good-tempered friend; so, having divested himself of his wet boots and stockings, and inserted his feet in a pair of worsted slippers made on purpose for him by Julia Poggleton, he drew a chair near Jenks's, put his feet upon another, and began the work of fumigation.

"And so you think, Jenks," observed our hero, when he had smoked about half of his first cheroot, "that I am in too great a hurry to begin upon the long cornet. Why I take it for granted that he has been inquiring for me some time before this."

"You do -- do you?" returned Julian Jenks, "a precious simple-minded fellow you are then. Why if he inquired after you last night, he would have found you out long before this morning, and you may expect, therefore, a chit from him at breakfast time, which will save you trouble of jolting into Calcutta, and the expense of paying for a Dum-Dum-mer. I'll tell you what it is, Master Peregrine, you are a monstrous acute fellow about ordinary matters, but you are a deuced sight too generous, when you attempt to decide upon the motives and the conduct of an enemy."

Julian Jenks was a "monstrous acute fellow" too, and his acuteness was evinced in these last words; for Peregrine, though he saw as deeply into motives as most people, was ever slow to judge harshly of an adversary. It was a fine trait in the young man's character, and as such we take pleasure in recording it.

"Well then," said Peregrine, "what are you pleased that I shall do? As my 'friend,' of course it is in your power to do whatever you like. My honour is in your keeping, to use the expression that Mr. Peterkin employed at the Cape, and all I have to say on the subject is, that I hope you will take great care of it."

"Of course I will," remarked Mr. Jenks.

"I have no doubt of it, my good fellow; but just pour me out another cup of coffee, and then tell me what you think I ought to do."

"Nothing," returned Jenks, pouring out the desiderated coffee.

"What do you mean?" asked Peregrine.

"Why simply this -- as you are in such a confounded hurry to settle the hash of the long cornet, I will send for a Dum-Dum-mer at once -- and go in search of his whereabouts. Let me see -- when are you for guard?"

"On Monday," returned Peregrine, laughing, "therefore pray fix Friday or Saturday for the affair, so that if I am to be shot, I may at all events skip a guard-day by it."

"I was thinking of that," returned Julian, echoing his friend's laugh, and then suddenly checking himself in the middle of it, as though he thought such mirth indecorous, and his friend's situation no laughing matter; "but to be serious -- though really I think that, if there is any shooting in the matter, you are more likely to be active than passive -- I will go into Calcutta this morning, and see Drawlincourt, if I can. I need only tell him that you are here; that ought to be enough for him."

"Of course it ought," said Peregrine, knocking the ashes off the end of his cheroot against the edge of the table; "and as you have no objection to run the risk of being jolted to death on these beautiful roads of ours, why I think that I will just go with you, as perhaps it will help to expedite matters a little."

"What a fellow you are," returned Jenks, "itching I suppose to horsewhip him again."

"Not at all," replied Peregrine Pultuney, "I have nothing to horsewhip him about now, and rather pity him than any thing else. You shall set me down at Chowringhee, and call for me again, when you have settled your business with the cornet."

"Oh! that's it, is it?" asked Julian Jenks, "going to take a last adieu of the fair Julia -- very tender, and very touching doubtless, but all in the pure platonic line, of course."

"Of course," echoed Peregrine Pultuney.

"Ah! well, we shall see," continued Julian Jenks. "It is not for nothing, you may depend upon it, that the young lady has been dispensing so many juwabs (refusals) of late. It is not for nothing -- "

"Why, I can answer you there," interrupted Peregrine with a smile, "as the lamb answered the wolf in the fable, 'I was'nt even born then.' Now I was born certainly, but was not in the country, when all these juwabs were given -- "

"Not when all, but when several of them -- lucky fellow! lucky fellow! I wish I had a pretty cousin to platonize with too."

Expressing in these words the nature of his inclinations, Julian Jenks drank off his second cup of coffee, and then jumped up from his seat, sent a servant off to order the carriage, and recommending Peregrine Pultuney to do the same, went into his own room to dress himself for their early breakfast; which people enjoy none the less in India, for two or three preliminary cups of coffee or tea, without which, indeed, it would be almost impossible to get over the few first hours of the day, especially when one or two of them are occupied in swallowing fog and powder-smoke, and running about, in the wet grass, after bullocks.

Nothing happened worth recording during the journey of the two young men to Calcutta. Young bones are, fortunately, not much injured by jolting and bumping over roads, the texture of which somewhat resembles that of a nutmeg-grater on a large scale; and so it happened that Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks reached Chowringhee without sustaining any very serious injury by the way. Julian Jenks, as had been arranged, was to leave Peregrine at Mrs. Poggleton's, and then to proceed on to Spence's, where he thought he was sure of either finding or hearing something of the redoubtable Cornet Drawlincourt, of the Dragoons, and of bringing matters to a crisis.

When Peregrine entered his aunt's drawing-room, he observed that Julia Poggleton was sitting at the round table, apparently deeply absorbed in some worsted-work, with her head bowed down almost close to her work, and her front curls resting on the table. She did not rise when he entered the room -- she did not so much as lift up her head; and although Peregrine twice uttered her name, she took no notice of him until he had seated himself by her side, and drawn one of her hands into his. When she lifted up her head, Peregrine observed that her beautiful eyes were full of tears, and her cheeks still wet with weeping.

"What is the matter, Julia?" he asked tenderly; "What has happened to make you wretched?"

"Nothing -- nothing," replied Miss Poggleton, doing her best to smile through her tears; "there now -- it's all over -- never mind -- we women are foolish creatures."

"Nay," said Peregrine, "I do not think it is much your wont to shed tears without sufficiency of reason. Somebody has been unkind to you, or are you unhappy. Julia, are you unhappy?" and Peregrine's naughty arm wound itself platonically round the pretty girl's slender waist.

"Yes, a little," returned Julia, in a faltering voice; I mean -- no -- why should I be unhappy?" -- and in spite of her efforts to restrain them, the big tears rolled down her cheeks -- "why do you think I am unhappy, Peregrine -- I don't know why I should be unhappy."

"Nor I," said Peregrine, "would that I did; for all that kindness and affection could do to remedy the evil, should be done, Julia -- that it should."

"Oh! I know that," she answered, "I am sure of that -- you are very kind, Peregrine; and always have been -- so is every body -- at least almost every body -- I'm sure I have no reason to complain."

"And yet," returned Peregrine, in his most affectionate manner, "you do not look as though every body were kind to you -- you say yourself 'almost every body;' so somebody has been unkind to you, I am sure."

"No -- no -- don't think that," she returned hurriedly -- "I don't know why you should think that -- and yet you have always been so kind to me that I ought to treat you as a brother; I'm sure you always have been as such to me."

"And ever will be, Julia -- dearest Julia -- there is nothing that I would not do for you."

"Oh! I'm sure of that -- quite sure," sobbed the poor girl, "but I do not think that you can do anything for me -- the truth is, though it is wicked to say so, I ought not to have come here -- "

"Why, not?" asked Peregrine, soothingly.

"Because I am not -- I don't know -- but why should I conceal any thing from you, whose sympathy I am sure always to have -- I know that you will feel for me, Peregrine -- I ought not to have come here. I ought to have remained in England) anywhere, any place in the world, where marriage, marriage, marriage would not be dinned into my ears all day long. I thought that I came here to join my parents, because India is my own proper home, my birth-place, the abode of my parents. Why should I marry now; why should I be persecuted, so young? I am not more than seventeen; and yet they talk to me as though I were waxing old and haggard. I am sorry, very sorry to displease them -- papa looks grave, and mamma is angry; and besides that, I cause pain -- I am afraid, indeed, great pain, in some instances; but what am I to do? I cannot sacrifice myself utterly, and I cannot force my affections -- why was I ever brought here, into such an unnatural atmosphere -- into a place, where marriage is set up as the one essential thing to be coveted. Mamma tells me that Miss Jones, and Miss Harvey, and Miss Williamson, who came out the same time as I did, have been married some time, and the elder Miss Gowanspec, who came out with you is going to be married very soon -- now what have I to do with all this? I did not know, Peregrine, that I came out here to run a race, with matrimony for the winning-post; and yet I can plainly see that mamma thinks more about my marrying soon than marrying well, at least, I mean, what I call well, that is marrying the object of my choice. There is a sort of rivalry, I don't understand it, between mamma and Mrs. Parkinson; and I know mamma will be sadly disappointed if Adela Gowanspec is married before I am, and yet what a reason for my giving myself up to a man, whom I can only respect. You must think it very strange -- very indelicate, I dare say, in me to talk in such a strain as this; but I speak to you, as though you were my brother, my own, kind affectionate brother, and I must unburden myself to some one. You sympathize with me -- "

"That I do."

"You sympathize with me and will not laugh at me, I know -- I have no sister, no brother of my own; and so I make a brother of you -- you will be my brother, will not you, Peregrine?"

But to this Peregrine made no verbal response. He merely drew the dear girl closer to his side, and kissed away the tears from her cheeks.

It was all done in a brotherly way, most brotherly, of course. At least Peregrine flattered himself that it was so, and even in that advanced stage of the proceedings, had any body taxed him with being in love, he would have stoutly maintained the platonic nature of his affection, so wont are we to deceive ourselves in all matters, and especially in the matter of love.

But the tears having been kissed away -- and we feel ourselves bound as faithful historians to state that the kisses continued some time after the tears had disappeared -- Julia Poggleton became more collected and more explicit; and informed Peregrine that she had been compelled that morning to juwab Mr. Ballygunge of the civil service. He was a very respectable, middle-aged gentleman, she said, tolerably sensible as a man, and unexceptionable as a civil servant, had a house in the Chowringhee-road, and the best horses in Calcutta -- was rich, or reputed so to be, and a great friend of her father's, but really, in spite of all these advantages, she could not make up her mind to be Mrs. Ballygunge. He had called that morning on his way to office, popped the question, and she had been obliged to refuse him.

"What could I do?" she said to Peregrine. "I liked the man very well indeed, have always respected and esteemed him, more as I would an uncle than any thing else, but love -- "

"Is for boys and girls like us," interrupted Peregrine, practically demonstrating the truth of the observation, with his usual affectionate energy.

"What a naughty creature you are," exclaimed Julia, disengaging herself from her cousin's embraces, "I have not the strength now to scold you or you would not escape so easily. I don't know when I shall be happy again -- my father, I know, is deeply annoyed, and I don't know when mamma will forgive me for having rejected so good an offer. And poor Mr. Ballygunge himself! That is the worst part of all. The look of patient sorrow that he turned upon me, as he prayed God to bless and to bestow on me a younger and a better husband, will not easily be obliterated from my memory. I did not think that he had so much feeling; but I believe now that he was deeply hurt by my refusal -- and yet, what could I do? I knew that I could not love him, though I might honour and esteem; and I was not devoted enough to make the required sacrifice."

There was something in all this that Peregrine liked, and yet he durst not ask himself why. She had given many a juwab before this, and yet somehow or other Peregrine, though not naturally vain, could not help connecting the platonic league, that existed between himself and his fair cousin, with this last refusal to become the wife of another. Not that Peregrine ever dreamt of matrimony -- the thing was a great deal too preposterous, and he never encouraged a thought of it. He was a supernumerary second-lieutenant with just enough pay to keep him very comfortably -- in debt; and besides that he was scarcely twenty, so of course it could never be expected of him; and he made himself quite easy on that score.

Mrs. Poggleton did not show herself that morning ; but she sent out a message to Peregrine, begging him to remain to tiffin; and the two young people therefore were left together to amuse themselves as best they could. What they felt and what they said we shall not disclose; but it was nearly one o'clock when they were interrupted in a very delicious tete-a-tete, by the entrance of a bearer, who brought a chit to Peregrine with immediate scrawled upon it in large letters.

He tore it open -- it was from Julian Jenks; and Peregrine, who had forgotten all about the long cornet and the object of his visit to Calcutta -- so much stronger was love within his bosom than fear -- made himself master of its contents.

"My Deab Pultuney, -- Long Drawlincourt is in no cue for fighting; so you may keep your valour for some future occasion. I found him at Spence's; but he is wretchedly ill, laid up with a bad fever, and, upon my soul, I quite feel for him. From all that I can collect, he went on shore, when his ship was in the river, to go shooting in the middle of the day, and the consequence has been a pucka fever. He seems to have no friends here, no one to look after him, but his landlord, who pays him an occasional visit; and, though as you well know, I never could bear the fellow, I feel disposed to be kind to him, for he is really an object of pity. I have seen him, and he has recognized me; but he is half delirious, and he has spluttered out some questions about you, cursing and swearing at you, and uttering incoherent threats about vengeance and all that. We must do something for the poor fellow, if we canSo come here and let us consult about the best way of doing him a service. I know so well to whom I am writing, that I do not scruple to recommend this course, as one which I am sure you will be most eager to adopt -- come, therefore, if you can -- we will tiff here together.

"Yours, very sincerely,

"Julian Jenks."

Agreeably as Peregrine was occupied when this letter arrived, he did not hesitate, for one moment, about responding to the appeal of his friend, Jenks. Telling Julia he had just heard that an acquaintance, he could not say a friend of his, was dangerously ill and lacking assistance, he asked the young lady to order her mamma's carriage to take him to Spence's Hotel. This she did immediately and without regret, for her feelings had been all the morning on the stretch, and she longed to retire into solitude for a little, and, if possible, recover her composure of spirit.

When Peregrine reached Spence's, he found Julian Jenks anxiously awaiting his arrival in the coffee-room. "Well, Jenks," he said, "what are we to do?"

"It is difficult to say," returned the gentleman addressed, "I am afraid that our presence, and yours in particular, will only irritate the poor fellow; and it is of importance that he should be kept quiet. When I left him, about half an hour ago, he was fairly exhausted with cursing and swearing, and vowing vengeance; and he has since sunk into a sleep. Perhaps, when he awakes, some fresh crotchet may have taken possession of his brain; so we must wait to see what will be the effects of his nap, and in the meantime we may take our tiffin."

It is not to be supposed that Peregrine had any thing to say against so reasonable a proposition. The two friends, therefore, sat down to the table d'hôte, and regaled themselves very much to their own satisfaction, and to the benefit of their failing bodies. Peregrine was excessively hungry, for it is notorious that love-making is the very hungriest of all occupations in the world, and a couple of hours of this, at the end of a jolt from Dum-Dum, had well nigh rendered him ravenous. The meal was, however, despatched in the course of time, and the conversation regarding Drawlincourt, which had been laid aside when the more inviting matter of eating was brought upon the tapis, was resumed with much spirit by both parties.

Julian Jenks had gone upstairs, directly he had finished his tiffin, to ascertain whether Drawlincourt was stirring, and he had learnt from a servant that the long cornet was awake, and much more quiet and collected than. he had been before his slumber.

"We must take advantage of this crisis," suggested Jenks.

"Certainly," returned Peregrine, "but when he sees me, the chances are that he will become as frantic as ever."

"That depends upon you," remarked Julian.

"The deuce it does! -- How?" asked Peregrine.

"Why," resumed Jenks, "I will tell you how. You are a deuced good fellow, Pultuney, and most generous; and, in what I am going to propose, I dare say you will think I have taken advantage of those qualities, to humbug you; but the fact is, I have been thinking over this matter for two hours before you came, and it appeared to me -- does appear to me now, that there is only one thing to be done -- you must beg the long cornet's pardon."

"The devil I must," exclaimed Peregrine.

"Yes; you must, and what is more, you will," returned Jenks, "it may be a bitter dose, but you will be glad of it afterwards. I know you will be glad of it afterwards; and to tell you the truth, I think that you ought. Remember how soundly you whipped him."

"I do remember that perfectly," said Peregrine Pultuney, "and I remember too what occasioned it -- he flung a glass of wine in my face, and the flogging only made us quits. I have nothing to beg his pardon for."

". Very well," rejoined Jenks, "we will grant all this -- you do not owe him an apology, so make it a free gift; it will become you all the better -- it will -- charity is a better thing than justice, my good fellow -- it will be a charity to beg his pardon."

"Very well," said Peregrine, "I will think about it."

"Do," urged Julian. "I do not deny that he richly deserved his horse-whipping -- I was glad of it -- I enjoyed the sight of it; and if he had only endured the horse-whipping, I should not pity him in the least; but he has suffered much more than this -- six months of bodily fear to begin with -- the loss of his passage -- the expense of providing a new one -- to say nothing of outfit and other things of that kind, left on board the Hastings -- and lastly this fever, which is now afflicting him, and which will possibly bring him to the grave."

"Well," returned Peregrine, seriously, "your catalogue is a sad one -- very; but I do not know that all these evils are fairly assignable to the horsewhipping I gave him. The fear, if he has been in fear, I acknowledge; but not the loss of the passage."

"You may depend upon it," interrupted Julian Jenks, "though I do not pretend to say exactly how it was brought about, that he would not have lost his passage if you had not administered the horse-whipping -- it was some act of skulking, you may depend upon it."

"Well," said Peregrine, "if I acknowledge the loss of the passage, I surely have had nothing to do with the fever."

"Not, perhaps, with the immediate cause of it," returned Julian; "but a great deal, I am afraid, with keeping it on him. He might have had the fever, if you had not thrashed him, though you may depend upon it, that the irritation, produced by the annoyances he has been subjected to of late, has been a predisposing cause of the fever; but it is evident, beyond all shadow of doubt, that the present irritability under which he is labouring, and which prevents the least diminution of the alarming symptoms of the disease, is most certainly the effect of that horse-whipping. I know you too well, my good fellow, to think that you will misinterpret what I say. I do not wish to make you uneasy, but I have seen Drawlincourt, and heard what he raves about -- these ravings do not permit me to hesitate for a moment about the advice it becomes me to offer you. You have placed your honour, as you say, in my keeping, and depend upon it I will take good care of it. But you must make Drawlincourt an apology now, and when he is well again, you may do what you like."

"Is it necessary?" asked Peregrine Pultuney.

"I think it is," -- returned Julian Jenks, "I think, at least, that an apology from you, at this crisis, will do him more good than all the calomel and tartar-emetic in the dawah-khana (medicine-chest). It will remove the grand cause of his present irritability, and if I am not much mistaken, restore him to comparative composure. This being done, there will be some chance for him; his fever may, perhaps, then be reduced."

"Who attends him?" asked Peregrine Pultuney.

"Why," returned Julian, "the doctor of the Welksley; and if he is not much better than the doctor of the Hastings, I do not think Drawlincourt is in very good hands; but we can easily settle that matter -- your apology is the main thing."

"Then, Doctor Jenks," rejoined Peregrine, "you may make yourself quite sure of that. I will apologize to him, and with all my heart, if you think that it will do him any good; and what is more, and, as I think, will be more serviceable, I will ask Dr. Martingale to go and see him; and all that human skill and human care can do, will, I am sure, be done. We must wait, however, for a good opportunity to tender this said apology -- it will be no use to do it whilst he is delirious, for he will not understand what I say, and my presence will do nothing but aggravate him. I only hope that he will take it, as it is meant; and not when he recovers from his illness, boast that he extorted an apology from me, and declare that I made it under the influence of fear. But I do not think that he will do this. I do not think that he can -- do you?"

"I think that he both can and will," replied Julian; "but we need not mind about that, for if he gives us any trouble afterwards, we can but horsewhip him again. I do not now bid you apologize to Drawlincourt, but to the sick man in No. 27, or rather not the man but his fever. When the fever is gone, if he conducts himself properly, we will let him escape altogether; but, if not, it is my turn next, and I will polish him off for his ingratitude."

Comforting himself and his friend with these and similar assurances of the extreme facility of squaring accounts, at some future day, to their own entire satisfaction, Julian Jenks finished the bottle of beer that was before him, and then proposed to go up stairs again to Drawlincourt's room, to ascertain, as he said, how the land was lying.

This he did; and two or three minutes afterwards he returned to tell Peregrine, that the long cornet was still awake, and considerably more composed, and, to all appearance, more easy than he had been; -- "I have spoken to him," continued Julian, "and he is more rational. At first he seemed inclined to burst out into his old ravings; but I remonstrated with him, told him that you were very sorry he was ill, ready to beg his pardon, and all that sort of thing. In short, I thoroughly humbugged him, and now, I think, we may go up together."

"Very good," said Peregrine, emptying his tumbler; and, passing his arm through Julian's, he left the coffee-room with his friend.

CHAPTER XVI.

In which the Sick Lion shows more Valour than the Sound One.

We hope that none of our readers will object to our work, as being too full of fevers and sick-rooms; for life in India is really nothing but a long fever, and India itself but a large sick-room. How can any picture of Indian life be correct, if the grim fever-king is not painted in the foreground?

We have already described a sick-chamber in India; but, as faithful historians, it becomes us to assert that Cornet Drawlincourt was somewhat more comfortably located than the unfortunate Ensign Appleby had been; for the apartment, which Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks now found themselves entering, though not very tidy, was, at all events clean; and there was nothing disgusting in its aspect. It was a tolerably commodious chamber, on the third floor, and sufficiently cool and airy; but it had that peculiarly confused look, which is best described by the very un-Johnsonian, but expressive adjective, higgledy-piggledy, and which a room is always sure to have, when its tenant has just arrived in harbour, after a long voyage, and has not had time to get his traps in order; for there was a sea-couch against the wall, somewhat fractured during its transportation from ship to shore, and there was a table-washing-stand, minus a leg in one corner of the room, whilst. a great number of leather bullock-trunks, deal packing-cases and miscellanies, blocked up the area of the apartment. The fact is, that not only had Cornet Drawlincourt's goods and chattels just arrived from the ship Wellesley, but that another influx of useful articles had lately found its way thither from the agents of the ship Hastings, who, having heard of Mr. Drawlincourt's arrival, had lost no time in forwarding to him the whole of the property, which, owing to the lengthy gentleman's personal defalcation, had been landed in Calcutta without him.

When the two young officers opened the door of the long cornet's apartments, they saw, to their great astonishment, Cornet Drawlincourt sitting upright in his bed, sleeking. his moustaches with a brush of lilliputian proportions, and grinning at himself in a glass, which a servant was holding before him, with every symptom of personal enjoyment depicted on his pale face. The friends entered and made their way towards the bed over sundry ridges of trunks and packing-cases, somewhat as a person walks over a shallow stream by the assistance of a few large stones, which he treads upon in that peculiar manner described by accurate writers as gingerly; and as they approached the long cornet, that personage, with a dignified gesture that would have become a monarch, waved his sable attendant away, tossed his miniature-whisker brush after the servant, folded his arms, and looked fiercely at his visiters.

Peregrine could not help smiling, as he neared the bed, at the stately efforts of the long cornet; but his better nature was speedily touched by the lamentable sight, that presented itself; for never had a sadder change been wrought upon the person of a human being -- at least, never had Peregrine witnessed a sadder one. The long cornet's face, which, when Peregrine last saw it, was about the colour of the Bengal army list, (for he was one of those fresh-looking young gentlemen with white teeth and black whiskers, whose likenesses we see in the hair-dressers' shops,) was now somewhat paler than a table-cloth, and about the shape of a vertical section of a wall-shade. His head had been shaved, quite close to his scalp, and his temples were of course spotted with leech-marks; but his whiskers and moustaches either were, or appeared to be, longer and blacker than ever; for although he had submitted to the loss of his hair, after ascertaining from unquestionable authority that he could procure a first-rate wig in Calcutta, with curls of any pattern he liked, no powers of persuasion on the part of others, and no fear of consequences on his own, could induce him to give up the lip and cheek treasures which he had been hoarding up for the last three years. A friend of his, with very red whiskers, had declared to him that they had originally been black, but that after being shaved down in a fever, they had sprung up again about the tint of a two-penny postman's coat-collar; and the long cornet, having placed implicit confidence in the veracity of his friend's statement, had resolved never to run the risk of entailing upon himself a similar misfortune. Our readers will, no doubt, hesitate as to which they ought most to admire -- the confiding nature of the long cornet, or the excessive strength of his resolutions, from which even the near prospect of death could not drive him into the least deviation.

Our hero, as we have said, was moved by the sad change which he beheld in the long cornet, for a thought flashed across his brain at that moment, that he himself might have been the cause of it. There was a chair beside the sufferer's bed, and Peregrine, having previously removed from off it a tumbler of lemonade and some lint, was just about to seat himself on it, under an impression that by so doing his appearance in the sick chamber would assume a more friendly aspect, and testify that he had come thither to comfort or console, when he saw that the right arm of the cornet was crimson with blood, which was oozing out from under his shirt-sleeves, and soaking through spreadingly to the sheets. He had been bled that morning, and the bungling fellow who had performed the operation,. had fastened the band ages in such a manner as would have disgraced the clumsiest apothecary's apprentice. The least motion of the patient's arm would have been sufficient to slacken them, and the moustache-brushing was therefore utterly fatal -- the ass of a doctor having taken into his head, as an improvement upon the general practice, to make a puncture in the right arm of the cornet.

But as Peregrine Pultuney was a young gentleman who rarely lacked presence of mind, the bandages were soon replaced, and if not in a very scientific manner, at all events in a very effectual one, as his best broad-brimmed beaver abundantly testified, for before Peregrine had done his work; it looked as though it had been moulting to supply styptics to one who was indeed little deserving of such kindness. Our hero, however, did not care for that; he knew the fellow was a scoundrel, but he was come to save him if he could.

"You had better lie down now," said Peregrine, when the ligatures had been settled to the best of his non-professional abilities, which, indeed, very far surpassed the professional abilities of the "experienced surgeon" of the Wellesley. "You had better He down and be quiet."

"You had better not dictate to me," replied Drawlincourt.

Taking into consideration. all the circumstances of the case, it will be acknowledged that this response was indicative of a very deep sense of the obligation just conferred on him. The long cornet had his own way of testifying his gratitude, and though it was a little singular, it must be respected, for it was very sincere.

"You had better not dictate to me," said Cornet Drawlincourt, endeavouring to look very fierce indeed, but of course failing utterly in the attempt.

"I was not dictating," rejoined Peregrine; "I was only suggesting for your own good."

"My own good -- very likely indeed," snarled the cornet; "just like such a d -- d fine fellow, come to insult me in every way you can, when you see that I can't help myself -- can't cr-cr-cr -- crush you."

"Upon my word," replied Peregrine, keeping his temper in a most creditable manner, "I came here out of pure kindness, to be of use to you if I could; but neither to insult nor be crushed by you. I have too much regard for my own honour and my own person to wish for the one or the other."

"Your honour," sneered Drawlincourt; "just like you -- I suppose you have come about your honour, and to talk about satisfaction, now that you know I am hors-de-combat. Just like you; but you shall have it -- that you shall, if I drop down dead on the way to the ground."

Peregrine was a little taken aback by these feercious demonstrations of hostility on the part of the long cornet, as he thought that Julian Jenks had forewarned the dragoon that they had come expressly to offer him an apology -- a circumstance which, if Peregrine Pultuney had known Mr. Drawlincourt a little better than he did, would have been more than sufficient to account for his present exhibition of pugnacity.

But Peregrine was determined not to give way beneath any such assaults upon his patience, so he merely remarked that he was sorry the cornet had mistaken the object of his visit, for that it was one most entirely of peace, and if it were possible, of consolation.

"Peace, -- is it?" snarled the amiable cavalry-officer; "a very likely thing indeed, after the insults you have put upon me -- you want to back out of it now -- do you? a very likely thing, indeed."

"Well," said Peregrine, "you may take your choice."

"Oh! I may, may I? Thank you very much -- I thank you very much for your condescension -- I may let you off if I like, or I may ho-ho-ho-horsewhip you if I like. I would soon let you know what I do like, if I were all well and strong again -- but it don't matter, to-morrow morning will do."

"Why, what are you thinking of?" interposed Julian Jenks, who had been all this time teaching a khitmudgar (valet) to make some lemonade that would not resemble the rincings of a vinegar-bottle. "I told you that my friend had come here to offer you an apology and shake hands with you; what the devil do you talk about fighting for?"

"Because, I like it," was the gracious response.

"So it seems," rejoined Mr. Jenks, smiling, and thinking to himself that it was a pity the long cornet did not like fighting as well as talking about it; "but as we have not come here to debate upon these matters, I think we may as well withdraw."

"Very well -- do as you like -- and to-morrow morning -- where shall we have it? I dare say I could stand against a tree."

"Stuff and nonsense," returned Julian Jenks, who could not help smiling at the accession of valour, which the cornet had gained, since he had been incapacitated from proving it, "if you have become so confoundedly blood-thirsty all of a sudden, and are resolved not to accept an apology, we will wish you good bye for the present, and call upon you when you are well enough to fight, with our hair triggers all ready in the buggy. I can assure you, sir, that my friend has not the least objection to accommodate you at twelve paces; but having twice disappointed him on a similar occasion, he requests you will be more punctual next time."

"What did you send the policeman then after me for?" asked Drawlincourt.

"What policeman?" asked both the other young gentlemen.

"Why; the d -- d fellow who put me in quod, and caused me to lose my passage," said Drawlincourt.

The two friends looked at one another.

"Ah! you understand, I see," continued the long cornet, "but you shall not have me that way in India."

"I'll tell you what it is," cried Peregrine, who was somewhat indignant at being made the subject of such insinuations as these; "we know nothing about the fellow who put you in quod that night, but we were deuced nearly being put into quod ourselves, for painting the Zuid Afrikain signboard."

"Then I'll be cursed if they did not take me for you, and yet they might have known my moustaches," blustered the cornet.

The two friends exchanged glances again; both were astonished beyond measure at this revelation, and yet neither of them could abstain from laughing. It was, indeed, eminently ludicrous, and the cornet was horribly annoyed at finding himself the subject of their laughter. So he swore a little, grinned a great deal, and expressed very serious regret at his present inability to crush the young men beneath his feet. To this, however, they paid no manner of attention; the object of their visit was one of conciliation, and they determined, if possible, to carry it through. So again they returned to the point whence they had set out, and again they were repulsed by the artifices of the cornet, who, as we have before hinted, was making strenuous endeavours to establish a character for gallantry at the smallest possible personal expense to himself.

"Then,". said Julian Jenks, "we must give it up -- you are a most unreasonable person. My friend comes here to tender you an apology, at a time when one would suppose you most willing to accept it -- and yet you reject his overtures. Had I entertained a thought of your doing this, we should not have come here; for our visit, as it stands, must have done you a great deal more harm than good; and so I am sorry that we came. But good bye, you shall hear from us again, depend upon it, when you are getting better."

"St-st-st-stay," stammered the cornet, when he saw Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks were actually taking their departure -- "perhaps, you see -- I say, I think -- yes, perhaps something may be done."

"What may be done?" asked Mr. Jenks.

"Why, you see that if I were to have a ve-ve-very ample apology -- a ve-very humble apology, you see, I might perhaps be induced to -- that is, I might let off your friend, if he will give me an ample -- a very humble, you understand me, written apology."

"Moderate, certainly," muttered Peregrine -- "Jenks, am I to do this?"

"Write nothing," whispered Julian Jenks.

"Very well," returned Peregrine, and turning to the long cornet, he continued, "I am ready to say any thing you like; but I am not very partial to uniting. You must remember, Mr. Drawlincourt, that you were the agressor, and that what I did towards you, was only a small return for the benefit you conferred upon me. It was proper, I know, that after such an interchange of favours, we should finally settle matters, according to the rules of society; and I dare say that you have not forgotten, how we were twice disappointed of meeting one another, when all ready prepared to blow one another's brains out, in the pursuit of what is called satisfaction. You will give me credit, I am sure, for not having avoided the meeting; and I dare say you will willingly believe, that I am still quite ready to meet you, when you are off the sick-list, if you are still bent upon prosecuting this affair. The choice rests with you, Mr. Drawlincourt. Here is my hand if you like to take it; and as to apology I am ready to -- to -- "

"Don't stick at it now, Pultuney," suggested Mr. Jenks, in a low voice, "that was very good; but go on with it."

"As to apology, then," continued Peregrine Pultuney, "I am ready to -- that is I have placed my case in Mr. Jenks's hands, and he will make any apology for me, that he thinks the occasion warrants."

"Then," said Julian Jenks, stepping forward, "I will state that my friend, Mr. Pultuney, regrets having done the violence to your person that he did on board the Hastings, in the presence of the whole ship's company; and I hope that you, Mr. Drawlincourt, regret also, that you caused the disturbance alluded to, by throwing a glass of wine in Mr. Pultuney's face."

But the long cornet, now that he perceived how ready the two young gentlemen were to come to a peaceable arrangement, and make him any apology he wanted, began, as a matter of course, to hold out again, and to become warlike and exacting, in proportion to the peaceful and compliant demonstrations of his adversaries. Endeavouring again to look excessively fierce, and sleeking his moustaches with the forefinger of his left hand, he hemmed and hawed a little, and then said -- "No, no -- that won't do, upon my soul. D -- n it all, that won't do. You want me to apologize, do you? It won't act, sir -- I'd rather die, that I would."

"Then die and be "something, began Peregrine Pultuney, whose patience was now fairly exhausted; but Julian Jenks laid his hand upon his friend's mouth, pushed him aside bodily, and ere the curse was uttered, stepped before him and said, in a calm but decided voice: "Then you give me to understand, Mr. Drawlincourt, that my negotiations for peace have failed utterly, and so I shall take away my friend. You shall hear from us again, when you are recovered from your sickness, and in the meantime, I shall take care that Mr. Pultuney practises daily at a button or the wick of a candle: and I think you know, that he has the reputation of being a first-rate shot."

This was enough, or too much, for the cornet, who had long ago made up his mind to accept any species of apology, however meagre it might be, and who now began to fear, that he had been shilly-shallying with the young gentlemen a little too long. The button and the candle-wick were awful things to talk about, especially as he remembered very well, that Peregrine Pultuney had smashed all the claret bottles, that were thrown overboard from the poop of the Hastings, with his rifle; and had abundantly proved himself to be by far the best shot of the party. So he gave in at once, and very prudently came to terms before it was too late.

"No -- no -- no," he stammered out. "I didn't mean I wouldn't apologize, that is accept an apology. If Mr. Pultuney says he is sorry for what he has done -- why, that, I suppose, is as much as can be expected. To be sure, I gave him great provocation. I did begin, as you observe -- I threw a glass of wine in his face -- and -- and -- and -- perhaps, we are equal; so if Mr. Pultuney will shake hands -- "

"Do -- do," whispered Julian Jenks, to our hero, who now seemed inclined to hang back himself.

"I don't know what to say about it," said Peregrine.

"Stuff and nonsense, you do," urged Julian Jenks, "or if you don't, hold out your hand and say nothing at all."

"Well; here it is then," said Peregrine, as he took Drawlincourt's hand into his, and found, to his great surprise, that it was not nearly so hot as he anticipated; -- "and, I hope, Mr. Drawlincourt, that you will be soon well enough to -- to -- to take a drive on the course."

Had it been any body else than long Drawlincourt, or if Peregrine had not remembered just at that moment what a scoundrel the long cornet was, and how he had swindled poor Doleton out of all that unhappy youth's money, he would have said, "I hope you will soon be well enough to come and dine with me at Dum-Dum;" but these remembrances checked his incipient kindness, and the invitation was not given.

But the two young gentlemen did not quit the sick chamber until they had done something to contribute to the comfort of its unaimable tenant. They made the servants, with which Drawlincourt's landlord had provided him, put the room into decent order, helped the sick man to indue a clean shirt -- administered to him some excellent lemonade of their own brewing, and having ascertained, from the state of the cornet's skin and pulse, that the fever was, at all events for the time being, considerably abated, they took their departure, with a promise to ask Dr. Martingale, whom Peregrine knew very well, to call on the patient in the course of the evening.

The long cornet was not long about recovering. The first intimation he received of the forthcoming apology, had done him a world of good; and the fever soon rapidly left him. Peregrine Pultuney, who cordially forgave all Drawlincourt's misconduct to him, though he could not forget the rascally manner in which he had cheated the nervous youth, called several times to see the sick man at Spence's, and did him a number of little kindnesses, which we are sorry to say, were not very graciously received, though most cordially tendered. A few weeks saw the cornet again on his legs, or rather on his back, journeying to Meerut, where his regiment was stationed, and thinking himself a remarkably fortunate fellow, in having escaped so easily from the dangers that had environed him.

In the meantime Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks, were pursuing the even tenour of their way at Dum-Dum. It would have been difficult to find, in the whole regiment, two more agreeable or more popular young officers; nor, perhaps, in the whole of India, two young gentlemen better disposed to look upon the bright side of the picture of human life. They enjoyed themselves, as only youth can enjoy itself, and found glories, as the poet says, in all the shady places into which fortune happened to lead them. We must be distinctly understood, however, to say all this figuratively -- metaphorically; for to find shady places in Bengal, or, having found them, to wish to make glories in them, is not at all according to nature and probability, if we take the passage in its literal acceptation. All we mean to say is, that our two friends, unlike the majority of Bengallees, did not think that there was so much sunshine outside their doors, that they could readily dispense with it from inside their hearts. Bright as were the suns of Bengal, they did not eclipse the sunshine in these two young gentlemen's breasts.

As for Peregrine Pultuney, he was truly happy -- happy as young love could make him; and though love is a delightful thing in any shape, we question whether it is ever half so delightful as when it first creeps insidiously into our hearts and nestles there, without our acknowledging its presence. And thus with Peregrine Pultuney, whose platonic affection for his pretty cousin, was nothing less than love -- true and genuine love -- in its most beautiful virgin aspect. He went on from day to day -- from month to month -- in a dreamy state of delicious excitement -- never asking himself any questions, but when questioned by others, responding that it was all friendship -- esteem -- quite brotherly -- quite platonical -- any thing, indeed, in the world -- but love.

The cold weather passed away, as it always does with young gentlemen in his situation -- that is to say, in constant enjoyment, and yet in constant regret, that he was not permitted to enjoy it much more. The cold weather in India would certainly be the most delicious thing in the world -- except young love -- if we were permitted to do what we like in it. But with the cold weather, to the military man, come eternal parades and eternal practice; and always at the very times, which he particularly wants to set aside for his own recreations, he is called out to drill or to be drilled -- to work instead of to play -- to prepare for inspections, field-days, reviews, and a host of other military nuisances. As for Peregrine Pultuney, he made the best of it, and so indeed did Julian Jenks, though he was just as loud as ever in his execrations of the "confounded hole," into which it had pleased Providence to throw him. When he wanted to play at cricket, and was obliged, as he was most evenings in the week, to be playing at siege-battery instead, and throwing about a heavier species of projectiles than Mr. Duke's inimitable cricket-balls, until it was so dark that the fuzes in the shells looked like stars going the circuit, -- then Dum-Dum was a "confounded hole." When he wished to be out with the Calcutta Hounds, and was obliged to be out with the field-battery bullocks, hunting for colds on a foggy morning in the wet grass, then Dum-Dum was a "confounded hole." When he wanted to go into Calcutta, to join a pic-nic to the Botanical Gardens, and was obliged to go to the Expense Magazine, to weigh out powder and prepare cartridges, instead of drinking champaign and flirting al fresco, then Dum-Dum was a "confounded hole;" -- and yet, in spite of these little nuisances, and there were many more ejusdem generis, Julian Jenks, as well as Peregrine Pultuney, was happy, nay happier than the days were long, for they are not very long in the cold weather, and all the happier, because there was something for him to grumble at, and a place to be called "a confounded hole."

But the cold weather passed away, as it always does, a great deal too soon to be pleasant; and then came March -- warm certainly -- and April, May, June, grilling with their usual accompaniments of prickly-heat, mangoes, mangoe-fish, and clean linen. Throughout these months no one ever does more than exist, and few contrive to do quite as much, with the mercury in the thermometer standing at fever-heat, and the blood in one's veins a few degrees higher. All this is bad enough in reality, with plenty of money to purchase what the rising generation very classically call thermantedotes -- plenty of punkah-pullers and tatty-wetters, and that prime luxury ice; but a subaltern on a hundred and fifty rupees a month, knows little or nothing of such deliciae as these, and has to get through the hot weather as best he can, by exuding plentifully, drinking cold tea, smoking cheroots, and swearing.

Then came the rains, of which Peregrine Pultuney had already had a slight foretaste -- Dum-Dum was under water, and fevers became popular, and a dry pair of shoes or boots an unknown luxury in Bengal. Julian Jenks got a slight attack of fever, and Peregrine Pultuney nursed him; and the green damps stood on the walls of "Stangy Hall," as they do in a vault or a charnel-house.

But even the wet months, disagreeable as they were, passed away rapidly enough; and Peregrine, who had not been deterred by the heat, was still less deterred by the rain, from paying an occasional visit to Chowringhee; and when the cold weather came round again, as come it did, and come it will, if we only wait patiently for it, his expeditions became so frequent, that Julian Jenks began to complain, that he might just as well not have a chum at all, for that he seldom saw any thing of his, except at coffee time and on guard-days. Julia Poggleton, we need not say, was still a spinster; and people began to hint that she would remain so. Whether she loved Peregrine Pultuney we cannot state just at present, but a circumstance occurred which we shall keep for our next chapter that elicited the fatal truth, even before Peregrine expected it, and gave a colour to his whole future life. What this circumstance was, our readers will learn by following us to the third book of our history.

CHAPTER XVII.

In which Peregrine discovers that a Soldier cannot always do precisely what he pleases.

"Pleasant this, certainly," remarked Peregrine Pultuney, as he threw a chit upon the table in a manner, which to an intelligent observer would have suggested a very considerable doubt of the sincerity with which the words were spoken.

The young gentleman who had thus given vent to his feelings, was sitting one March morning, just after he had finished his breakfast, with a cup of cold tea before him, a cheroot in his mouth, and a history of the Mahratta war in his hand. Peregrine had almost given up smoking, which is the same thing as to say that he was very deeply in love -- but we have already said this so often, that it would be of little use to say it again, and we only mention the fact of his indulging on the present occasion, that our readers may be quite sure that on the day we are now referring to, Peregrine Pultuney had not the least intention of going into Calcutta. Our hero every now and then spent a whole day at Dum-Dum, but in order to reward himself for his self-denial, he always took care to receive a pretty lengthy chit (note), perhaps two, from Julia Poggleton on these fast days.

Let not our readers think, ho.wever, that the chit, which Peregrine Pultuney threw down upon the table, with an ironical remark upon the pleasantries it contained, was written by Julia Poggleton. It came from a very different quarter, and contained intelligence of that which the poor girl would have given all she possessed to avert.

Julia Jenks was lying upon a toon-wood couch, with one leg thrown over the back of it, and the other dangling to the ground, in the full enjoyment of an excellent Manilla and Mr. Hook's last n.ovel. He had just been abusing Peregrine for having become such desperately bad company of late, and had been declaring that he was heartily tired of living with such an unsociable creature, as the lovesick young gentleman had become. Not, however, that Peregrine had become unsociable, nor that Julian Jenks thought so in the least, but that the latter was much in want of something to grumble at, and was moreover seldom so happy as when laughing at Peregrine's tender passion, and talking about the "fair Julia."

"Pleasant this, certainly," remarked Peregrine Pultuney; "very pleasant indeed."

"What's the matter now?" asked Julian Jenks; "the fair Julia going to be married?"

"Always thinking of the fair Julia," returned Peregrine -- "but this is still better news for you; you want to get rid of me; and are likely to do so sooner than you expect."

"You don't mean that?" exclaimed Julian Jenks, with real concern depicted on his face.

"Indeed, I do though," replied Peregrine. "Have you ever heard of Khy -- Khy -- what the deuce do they call it? Khy -- ook -- Phy -- oo?"

"Never," said Julian Jenks.

"It's a place in Arracan then," continued Peregrine -- "a place somewhere in Arracan. Now Arracan may be a very nice place in other respects, for all I know to the contrary -- but I believe that it has the reputation of being the Sierra Leone -- the 'white man's grave' of India -- vastly pleasant -- vastly pleasant, indeed."

"You don't really mean, do you?" asked Julian, starting up from his recumbent position and throwing away his cheroot, "that they are going to send you to such a confounded hole?"

"No mistake about it," returned Peregrine. "Here is the assistant-adjutant-general's note, and he ought to be well-informed on the subject. I am to go down there as soon as a passage can be found me, to command the detachment there. It's a very eligible appointment, I dare say, but I would just as soon that they had not conferred it on me."

"Why, it can't be your turn," suggested Jenks.

"Oil! I suppose it is though," said Peregrine Pultuney. "We have been here, you know, a year and a half, and most of the subalterns have gone off. Clay, you know, is in orders for Kurnaul; and Jones has been upon the sick list some time. The horse artillery subs do not go, and I am the next on the list -- so go I must, whatever betide me. I suppose it's all owing to that ass, Tharawaddie, who will not keep quiet in Burmah. My uncle was talking the other day about the necessity of strengthening the frontier, so if I do go there, I hope I shall have something to do; there's one good thing in that, at all events."

Comforting himself with this reflection, and others of a like nature, Peregrine Pultuney began in a little time to think that the misfortune which had just befallen him was not so unbearable after all. These things always seem much worse at the first sight; they look large when first they become visible, but when we have quietly and deliberately scanned them, they sink into comparative insignificance, and we wonder at ever having been. alarmed at them. He should have to give up lovemaking he knew, but then there was a likelihood of some war-making as a substitute, and perhaps it was better, all things considered, that his intimacy with Julia should be brought to a close. It could be productive of good to neither party -- that he had sense enough to know; moreover, he was just beginning to suspect that Ms affection for his pretty cousin was not quite so platonical after all; so, perhaps, it was better that they should part; yet when he began to think of it, he could not help acknowledging that it was altogether a confounded bore. He had never heard any thing good of Arracan; so the advantages of the place were all to be discovered; but he did know that there was one good thing in Calcutta -- his own much beloved cousin Julia. He was young, however, and he was not one, whom any misfortune could easily depress, so calling to a servant to bring a chattah (umbrella), and asking Julian Jenks to accompany him, he determined to sally over to the mess, and look out for Khyook-Phyoo in the map, and read something about it, if he could, in that very excellent compendium of useful misinformation, entitled Hamilton's Gazeteer.

At the mess, he fell in with two or three of his brother officers, to whom he imparted the agreeable intelligence that had just been imparted to him; and it was, doubtless, a source of considerable gratification to our hero, that they one and all expressed their unfeigned regret at being about to lose so excellent a fellow; and it must not be considered any abatement of their sincerity, that they one and all congratulated themselves upon not being the party, whose unenviable position at the head of the roster had condemned to visit the transmarine Golgotha, to which Peregrine Pultuney was so lucklessly consigned.

After discovering that Khyook-Phyoo was located in an island on the eastern coast called Ramree, and that Arracan was a province in the Burman empire, the inhabitants of which are "often called by the Europeans, Mughs, from Mogo, a term of religious import and high sanctity, applied to the priesthood and king," Peregrine Pultuney and Julian Jenks went home again, and began to deplore their approaching separation, the latter being none the less measured in the terms of regret wherein he expressed himself, for having only an hour before declared that he should be "deuced glad to get rid of such a chum."

"Well! it's no use talking about it," said Peregrine Pultuney, "especially as I suppose that I've got plenty to do -- to get my traps in order -- and all that sort of thing, to prepare for a voyage to sea."

"I wish I were going with you," remarked Julian.

"I wish you were," returned Peregrine, "with all my heart -- at least as far as my own selfish interests are concerned, though you are a great deal better where you are -- but do you think Peer Khan will come with me?"

"Upon my word, I don't know," replied Jenks, "but I dare say he will if you pay him for it."

"And without too," rejoined Peregrine, "but we can very soon try that."

Peregrine called for a bearer, and in a little time Peer Khan was summoned to his presence. When our hero had any thing very particular to say to his favourite servant, he generally preferred saying it in good English to blundering through it in vile Hindustani; so upon the present occasion, he began -- "Peer Khan, I am going away from Dum-Dum."

"Ver good, master," returned the Mussulman, who always replied in the same language as that in which he was addressed, "ver good. I not think master ee-stay here for always."

"Then you will go with me, Peer Khan?"

"Master go, I go, give hookham, (order,)" replied Peer Khan; "I go by master up country, master pleasure -- he say Cawnpore, I go -- he say Benares, I go too -- ever where I go."

"But do you know where Khyook Phyoo is?" asked Peregrine.

"No, master, I not know."

"You know Arracan then?" suggested Peregrine.

"Yes, master; I not know, I hear, ver bad place, down country. Sahib never ee-stay there can. Goralogue, white men get sick. Bengallee, he get sick too -- bad place, all men go die."

"Then you prefer not going with me," suggested Peregrine, "you would rather stay in Bengal -- and I must get a new servant."

"No, master," said Peer Khan, pressing together the palms of his hands, and looking supplicatingly into his master's face; "no, master; what for take new servant -- I go by master, master go England -- any where I go -- master die, I die too -- what for I live -- master go sip?"

"Yes, Peer Khan, I shall go in a ship," said Peregrine, much touched by this proof of his servant's fidelity.

"Master go to-morrow?" asked Peer Khan.

"No," said Peregrine, "when the ship goes, I shall go; to-morrow I shall make inquiries; but are you quite sure that you would rather go with me; you may get sick there and die?"

"Master get sick, what do -- new servant, not know -- what for I live, but ee-stay with master -- I poor man, master make glad -- he very good to poor man -- I glad -- what for I get new master -- I go in sip -- master die, I die -- master live, I master servant."

"But," urged Peregrine, "remember that you have a wife and children; they might die in Arracan."

"No, master -- what for I take -- what they do in sip -- master give chit -- that do."

"What chit?" inquired Peregrine.

"Five six rupee month -- I leave chit they get from Beebee Poggleton. Then master give me what left."

"You mean then," said Peregrine, "that you will not take your wife and family with you; but that you want me to leave an order for five or six rupees a month for them -- that I can easily do -- but are you quite determined to leave them?"

"Yes; master," returned Peer Khan, "if master go lone, I go lone" -- 

"What do you mean?" interrupted Peregrine.

"If master not want ayah (lady's-maid)," began Peer Khan, looking down somewhat awkwardly, and halting in the middle of the sentence.

"Ayah!" exclaimed Peregrine, "what the deuce should I want an ayah for?"

"Master make marry," suggested Peer Khan, "then master want ayah."

"That's very true," returned Peregrine, laughing, "but you don't think I'm going to make marry now."

"Master please, I not know -- master, he not say -- Beebee Poggleton ayah tell that Missee Baba going to make marry with master -- Khansaman (butler), he tell too -- I hear Anness barber, he tell all people."

Hereupon Julian Jenks, who had been listening with a broad grin upon his face to the above conversation, burst out into an uproarious fit of laughter, and Peregrine Pultuney found considerable difficulty in preventing himself from doing the same. However, he was partially successful, but knowing that after this it would be utterly impossible to talk over matters in the presence of Peer Khan, with any degree of sobriety, he ordered that faithful servant to withdraw, and then turning round to his friend observed, that it certainly was eminently ridiculous.

"Ridiculous!" exclaimed Jenks. "it's the best thing I've heard for a long time -- you see that the fame of your amour with the fair Julia is as widely known as that of Petrarch and Laura. -- I know well enough that all Calcutta is talking about it; and you see now that 'all Calcutta's' servants are talking about it too. The very barber has the story ready for his customer."

"Yes," said Peregrine, "and that same Anness, or whatever his name is, is the greatest scandalmonger in Calcutta. He is a man who cuts the gentlemen's hair and makes false curls for the ladies, amongst the elite of Calcutta society, and knows as well on what footing Mr. This is with Miss That -- and when Mr. Somebody is going to be married to Miss Somebody else, as any body in the City of Palaces. He is, in this respect, a regular English hairdresser, for he has the news at his fingers' ends as well as any of the Bond-street curl-twisters; and carries tales from house to house as professionally as he does his scissors and curling-irons. Clay was telling me not long ago, an excellent story of this fellow, who is not always as well acquainted with the persons, as he is with the histories of the people whom he prattles about. Clay was living at Dr. Fitz-simon's, and sent for Anness to cut his hair one morning. It was before Clay was married, but after he had returned from England, an engaged man, and was very generally known as such; and as usual the dingy Truefitt began to talk about the different marriages upon the tapis, as well as the various qualities, bodily and mental, of the different young lady aspirants for matrimony, and after enumerating a few marriages and criticizing a few young ladies, he began to prate about Miss Skinner -- 'She very elegant young lady, Miss E-skinner,' for this accomplished gentleman always talks English, 'I hear she very fine lady at dance. One gentleman go there very often -- he blue coat gentleman -- come from Dum-Dum, he very much at house -- make marry.' 'And what's the gentleman's name,' asked Clay, struggling hard to keep down his laughter. 'His name? it Mr. Clay -- he artillery gentleman,' said the hair-dresser, 'he come from Dum-Dum every day.' Now I have about as much idea of marrying Miss Poggleton as Clay had of marrying Miss Skinner. The latter lady was married shortly afterwards to my friend Swallow, and I dare say that my cousin, Julia Poggleton, will soon be married to my friend somebody else."

"Nay; -you don't think so," rejoined Julian Jenks, "you only think that you think so."

"Very well," said Peregrine, "we shall see as the little kittens said, when they were born blind -- we shall see in due course of time."

"We shall" echoed Julian Jenks, "and I dare say that a day or two will decide it. You go into Calcutta, of course, to-morrow?"

"Yes," returned Peregrine, "I must -- for I am ordered to communicate with the quarter-master general about my passage to Arracan -- no more main-guard for me at all events -- I shall be in orders to night."

So on the following morning Peregrine Pultuney started in a Dum-Dummer for Calcutta, Julian Jenks bearing him company, for that gentleman either had or fancied that he had some very particular business to perform. As they were to go first to the Quarter-master-general's office, their road lay, after entering Calcutta, along one side of Tank-square and down Government-place. There was something in the locality, which affected Peregrine very sensibly, for they had not accomplished half the side of the square before he requested Julian Jenks to pull up the bunds of the carriage.

"What do you want to shut out?" asked Mr. Jenks, "there is no sun upon this side."

"I know that," returned Peregrine, "but there are plenty of shops -- I always pull up the blinds, or shut my eyes, when I come to this part of Calcutta. The very atmosphere breathes unpleasant reminiscences -- the very dust is laden with dims. Here live all the Calcutta tradesmen that it is worth one's while to run in debt with, and now that I must needs think of their vicinity, I may as well show you what I mean. Here is Moore and Hickey's -- a bill there. Thompson's -- a bill there. Pittar's -- of course, a bill there. W. W. Robinson's -- a bill there, of course. Rankin's -- one must have clothes; and Thacker's -- one must have books. Pittar and Lattey's -- one can't help dealing with them. The tribe of ghosts that haunted King Richard in his tent were nothing to the appearance of all these terror-laden shops to me. A. bad conscience is a very bad thing I know, but I doubt whether it is half so tormenting as the consciousness of being in debt,. for one cannot pass the house, or hear the name of the person you are indebted to, without feeling a pretty sharp prick. Now there is scarcely a shop along this side of the road, at which I, in common with hundreds of others, do not owe some money; and though I dare say I owe units where others Owe hundreds, not having the wherewithal to pay the units, I do not pass along Tanksquare and Government-place, with any peculiarly strong feelings of pleasurable emotion, you may be sure."

"One thing to be said is," suggested Mr. Jenks, "that you have not been very much dunned."

"No; I will say that for them," returned Peregrine, "and vastly civil and obliging they are. All the more unpleasant the necessity of going away without paying what I rightfully owe them."

"Oh!" said Julian Jenks, "you young gentlemen in love are such monstrous extravagant simpletons, that you deserve to suffer for your folly. Now, I should like to know what a supernumerary second lieutenant, on a hundred and fifty rupees a month, I beg your pardon, a hundred and eighty -- I forgot that lucky full-tentage memorial -- but I should like to know what a supernumerary second lieutenant, on such a magnificent salary as this, has to do at Pittar's, or Pittar and Lattey's, just as much business as a junior Bank clerk has at Storr and Mortimer's, or Howell and James's. You are a very generous fellow I have no doubt, and of course the fair Julia thinks you so; but now you see the advantages of this sort of thing -- your bill at Pittar and Lattey's, I suppose, is entirely for presents to the fair Julia -- Item, a beautiful porcelain inkstand, richly gilt, &c., &c., 40 rupees -- Item, a very handsome marble and bronze paper weight with a figure of Cupid, 24 rupees -- Item -- "

"Well; that will do," interrupted Peregrine, "you are not so very far wrong. But how on earth could I help it. It is so very delightful making presents -- "

"And paying for them, too," added Jenks, "especially, as it sometimes happens, when the bills come in, long after the person you have injured yourself to benefit has forgotten the benefits you have conferred. A very pleasant memento of a broken friendship is a long bill from a jeweller's for presents, every single item of which, as you read the list, seems to have 'Ingratitude,' in capital letters, written over it. I don't mean to say that this will be your case; but such often has been, and will be again."

"I have no doubt of it," replied Peregrine, "and I am as likely as any body to test the truth of your remark in my own person; and to see, some of these days, the very presents you are talking about, stuck upon the ornament tables of my cousin's own house, long after she has ceased to be Miss Poggleton, and I have ceased to be a welcome guest at her table. But," added Peregrine, as though anxious to change the subject, "these debts are a sad bore, and I don't precisely see how I am to get out of them."

"You must constitute me your agent," rejoined Julian Jenks; "you will have more money than you can spend at Arracan -- full batta, gun allowance, harness money and all that, with very few opportunities of spending; for I take it for granted that there are no Moores and Hickeys at Akyab, and no Pitteys and Latteys at Khyook-Phyoo. If you must make presents, the most that you can do, in that outlandish place, is to send the fair Julia some Burmah boxes or a barrel of Chitagong oysters -- and so you will save your money during your rustication, and be able to pay off your bills. Don't be uneasy on that score; I will collect your bills after you are gone, and pay them off as fast as I can."

"Thank you, my good fellow," returned Peregrine -- "but to collect bills in this part of the world is the same as to pay them, for nothing but receipted bills are issued -- a most heathenish custom as it is. In England one gets a bill, and has time to look over it, and to make up one's mind about paying it before the money is expected; but here a tradesman sends one a receipted bill, and, whatever time it may happen to come upon one, one is expected to send back the cash by the bearer. For my part, I like the old English custom of sending in one's bills periodically -- Christmas bills, quarterly bills, or whatever they may happen to be, as a man knows then, when to expect them; but here we get our bills whenever the people we deal with happen to want money, or whenever it is convenient for them to send for it, and they come upon us like claps of thunder, perhaps, when we are least prepared. Well -- well -- when once I am out of debt, I will stick to the ready-money system."

It is doubtful whether there was ever a person in debt who did not make this resolution, and still more doubtful whether there was ever a person who kept it, and Julian Jenks who, within the last year and a half, had kept his eyes well open, and been daily adding to his stores of experience, thought something of the kind, as he smiled and answered, "There is much to be said, my good fellow, in defence of the present system; for there are very strong reasons why the English one should not be adopted here. We are all, or nearly all of us, birds of passage -- here to-day and off to-morrow -- and if a tradesman were to wait till Christmas to send in his bill to a Ditcher or a Dum-Dum-mite it is more than probable that he would wait till the Ditcher or Dum-Dum-mite had dâked up to Meerut or sailed home to Europe. With a society so changeable as this, the system you advocate would never operate fairly for both parties, nor is it possible that the regularity you desire should ever be established at all. Besides, we get here our own allowances monthly, not in half-yearly dividends as in England; and it is necessary, in a great many cases, that the tradesman should keep a sharp look out after pay-day to get his money at all. It's very unpleasant I know to get a long bill when you don't expect it; but it must be still more unpleasant for the tradesman not to get his money at all."

"That's true enough," remarked Peregrine Pultuney -- "but as it often happens that a man wants to buy more things in one month than in all the eleven others put together, it is very hard upon the purchaser that he should be called upon to disburse, before he -- But here we are at the quartermaster-general's; what a great rambling house it is; how shall I ever find the person I am in search of?"

As he said this, Peregrine Pultuney buckled on his sword and entered the big house in Esplenade-row, where the affairs of the Indian army are mismanaged by a few fortunate officers, and a great number of unfortunate clerks. After climbing up one or two staircases, containing half-a-dozen chuprassies, and getting by mistake into the adjutant-general's department. Peregrine stumbled upon an assistant-quarter-master-general, who very politely furnished him with the information he came in search of, and after telling him that the H. C. B. Seeva would sail for Arracan in about ten days, and that Lieutenant Pultuney would be provided with a passage in it, desired that young officer to leave his address at the office, and told him that he was now permitted to be a gentleman at large until he should learn positively from the department the precise day of the Seeva's sailing.

Peregrine, but too glad to be emancipated from regimental thraldom though only for a few days, sallied downstairs, again, rejoined his friend in the carriage, and was speedily on his way to Chowringhee. Julian Jenks, who, as we have oftentimes had occasion to observe, was the best tempered fellow in the world, had become so thoroughly accustomed, in the course of the last year and a half, to be taken out of his way by his amorous companion, whenever they went in together to Calcutta, that upon the present occasion he regarded it quite as a matter of course, and though his route lay- in a totally opposite direction, submitted patiently to be carried to Chowringhee. But when Peregrine, as he neared his uncle's house, announced his intention of not returning to Dum-Dum, but of taking up his abode altogether with the Poggletons, the countenance of Julian Jenks became elongated considerably, and a sudden thought forced itself upon the mind of that fine staunch pattern of a friend, that Peregrine could never again be to him what he had once been, before he knew the "love of women."

A man in love is worth nothing as a friend -- nothing as a companion -- nothing as a member of society, and if this were not the case, he would be worth nothing as a lover. The he-friend, if he has been really a friend, feels the loss, but he has no business to complain of it. Some men do; but it is very unreasonable in them to look upon such a thing as desertion. We choose our friends, but we do not choose our mistresses; and are hurried away to the latter by our passions, whilst we have been led calmly to the former by our reason. It is the inevitable lot of humanity to be more under the influence of the passions than the reason; and the man, who has fallen in love, can no more help leaving his friend behind him, than the needle can help leaving the paper, when the magnet has come in its way. Our readers must excuse the imperfectness of these moralities; for it is so long a time since we have done any thing of the kind, that we are desperately "out of practice."

But Peregrine Pultuney took leave of Julian Jenks under the portico of his uncle's house, promising at the same time to go down to Dum-Dum in a day or two, for the purpose of going P. P. C. round the station, and taking a farewell dinner at the mess. Having done this (that is taken leave of his friend not taken the dinner alluded to) Peregrine Pultuney ran up stairs, and in a few minutes had poured out all his sorrows before the fair Julia.

The young lady bore it better than could have Been expected -- that is to say, she neither screamed, nor fainted, nor burst out into a paroxysm of tears. She looked graver and more pensiTe than usual; asked Peregrine a number of questions concerning the nature of his appointment, the necessity of accepting it, and the probable time of his departure, in a low, clenched-teeth sort of voice, and then walked out of the room, as she said, to tell her mamma.

Julia did not re-appear; but Mrs. Poggleton soon came, vapouring into the room, with a white feather fan in one hand, and a French cambric handkerchief in the other. "Only think," she said, "of your going to leave us -- well I never -- and to such a horrid place -- dear me! if you were my son, I wouldn't let you go, that I wouldn't. Why I once knew a whole family -- that I did -- husband and wife and three children -- and the husband's sister, or the wife's brother, I forget which -- all carried off in one rains -- I wouldn't go there on any account -- that I wouldn't -- only think, a family of six people, all carried off in one rains."

Comforting her nephew with these illustrations of the extreme salubrity of the Arracan climate, Mrs. Poggleton sunk into an easy chair, threw herself languidly back in it, and having arranged herself to her entire satisfaction, continued. "Well, my dear boy -- I'm really vastly sorry you're going -- dear me! and to think of Arracan -- the worst climate in all India -- I never knew but one person -- and that's Mr. Bobson, who ever came out of it alive. By the bye, Pegregrine, have you heard that Mr. Bobson is to be the next Member of Council?"

Smiling at this singular manifestation of the good lady's delight in news-telling, which he believed no accident short of her own entire dissolution could diminish, Peregrine assured his aunt that he had heard nothing of the report, until she had mentioned it herself.

"Ah! I thought not," she said, sniffing at her salts-bottle, but you may rely upon its being quite true. But what were you saying? -- only think -- to go to Arracan! I never knew any body go there yet (except Mr. Bobson) who did not come back a corpse, or the next thing to it. I wouldn't go there, if I were you, Peregrine, that I would not -- only think! to come back a corpse, or the next thing to it -- dear me!"

"But I must go, my dear aunt," urged Peregrine; "I am going upon duty, and cannot refuse."

"Duty! dear me!" cried Mrs. Poggleton, "I'm sure it's not your duty to go down there and die of a nasty fever. What good can you do by dying -- only think -- to go down there, and get the fever. Now, I'll tell you what -- Peregrine. Dr. Martingale will be here soon, and I'll get him to give you a medical certificate -- a medical certificate, that I will -- only think, dear me," and the funny old lady nearly laughed herself into an atrophy at the thought of the excellent practical joke she was about to play on the regimental authorities.

"But what certificate can he give me?" asked Peregrine.

"Ha! ha! what certificate! -- Only think! you young men are always such griffs" -- and Mrs. Poggleton began tittering again -- "why I'll ask him to write a certificate to say that Arracan is the unhealthiest place in all India, and that, if you go there, it will be the death of you -- the unhealthiest place in all India -- only think -- dear me!"

"Why," suggested Peregrine, "I should think that the authorities were perfectly well aware of this fact, without a medical certificate from Dr. Martingale -- and as for my dying there, we must all take our tour, and I have as good a chance, I suppose, of standing it, as any body else."

"Well," returned the vapoury aunt, "all I've got to say on the subject is, that there is nothing in the world, like getting a medical certificate. Dear me, when we wanted to take Julia home, and I did not much like going alone, my husband got a medical certificate, though just as well as you are now -- only think! a medical certificate, and nothing the matter with him in the world."

"But," urged Peregrine, "I am a soldier"

"I wish you wern't," interrupted his aunt -- "I wish you were, like us, in the civil service; for they don't send civilians down to Arracan -- it'a a great deal too bad for them -- only think -- a deal too bad for them -- that it is."

"And there is a prospect of war too," suggested Peregrine, "I should compromise myself eternally if I were to shrink now from accepting a service-command -- no, no, -- my dear aunt, it is a great bore, but I must go."

As Peregrine uttered these words with much decision of tone, Mrs. Poggleton did not attempt any more to persuade him towards the medical certificate, but began upon her favourite subject -- the only subject in which she really took pleasure in conversing -- namely, personality of some sort or other -- and after telling a great number of very amusing anecdotes, which had not the least effect in beguiling our hero, wondered where Julia could have gone to, and vapoured out of the room to fetch her.

Julia came to tiffin, and to all appearance was precisely the same as usual: appearances though are often deceitful.

END OF VOL. II.