CHAPTER I.

THE ASHTONS.

It was a glorious evening in early Autumn; and the westering sun, as it slowly abdicated its higher place in the cloudless sky, shed gleams of gilded crimson and purple upon its downward track, which turned the summits of the forest trees into a galaxy of gems, and tinged the waters of the lake with quick-glancing tints that rivalled the hues of the prism. And the scene was almost worthy of the rich but transitory glory thus spread above and about it. In no country save England could such an one have been met with. The house grim with time, vast, feudal, and imposing in its aspect, stood midway of an eminence whose summit was densely wooded, and was approached by an avenue of elms evidently coeval with its foundation; while on either hand a grassy slope, dotted with clusters of larches, interspersed with solitary trees of immense girth, centenary oaks and beeches, descended to the margin of a noble sheet of water, alive with aquatic birds. Along the facade of the building extended one of those fine old terraces, tier above tier, which were the pride of our ancestors, with its noble vases laden with brilliant exotic plants, its wide flights of shallow steps, its trim-cut box-trees, and its stately peacock. Over the park roamed a herd of deer; here browsing among the tall ferns, there reposing beneath the shadows of some leafy tree; while the frolicsome squirrel leaped from branch to branch above their heads, and wild birds called to each other from copse to copse, or darted by on rapid wing, disturbed by some imagined intrusion.

Nor was the scene within Ashton Court less attractive than that without. We will draw aside a rich curtain of crimson silk, and glance into the favourite apartment of the lady of the house. It is of moderate dimensions, although three noble windows open from it upon the upper terrace; nothing about the room induces the impression that comfort has been sacrificed to shew: it is half-morning room and half-library; there are musical instruments -- a pianoforte by Broad wood, and a harp by Erard; a small chamber organ, and a guitar; an easel with a half-finished picture: a sketching-stool and portfolio; a carved oak bookcase with the key in the lock; a writing-table with an open desk; new music, new pamphlets, and the leading journals of the day littered over the table; and a tapestry frame and worsted-basket in the bay of the upper window. There is home written in every detail of that pleasant room.

On a sofa beside the high, carved mantelpiece of white marble, reclined, as we intruded upon the privacy of the family, a remarkably fine-looking woman of some forty-five years of age. Hands white, small, and aristocratically moulded; a brow guiltless of a single wrinkle; dark hair touched, but not tinted by time; we say touche for it was easy to see that it had somewhat thinned about the temples, although not a line of silver had yet intruded itself among the sable braids that encircled her small, and well-poised head; large eyes, full rather of decision and energy than of tenderness; a delicately-shaped nose, with flexible nostrils, like those of an Arab; and a finely-modelled mouth, save only that the brilliantly-tinted lips were too thin, and too compressed, for actual beauty; combined with a majestic figure, rather inclining as years had stolen over her, to a certain embonpoint destructive of the lightness and buoyancy of early womanhood; -- were the personal characteristics of Lady Harriette Ashton.

Immediately facing his wife sat Sir Hercules, the representative and fourteenth baronet of the Ashton family: a worthy, honourable, and somewhat haughty, country gentleman; proud of his ancient descent; proud of his marriage with the brilliant daughter of an earl -- penniless though she was; and above all, proud of his children, a fine boy of fifteen at Eton, and two sweet girls, Florence and Matilda, at home, under the care of Madame Despreaux, their governess, and the superintendence of sundry professors from the adjacent post town. But proud though he was of all these advantages and privileges, Sir Hercules Ashton was a discreet man, and bore his honours meekly at his own hearth. If he ever were accidentally heard to boast, it was only of past exploits -- performed before his marriage, and when he was responsible to no one for his deeds or misdeeds, -- since that event he had assumed no independence whatever. All Hercules as he was, it was at once evident that the Omphalian phase of his existence had found him submissive to the distaff. The baronet was gouty, moreover; and what gouty husband has ever, since the commencement of the world, or rather of the disease, been able to maintain, even if he were rash enough to assert, his independence of those about him? A few, a very few years before we venture to make his acquaintance. Sir Hercules Ash ton had been a strikingly handsome man; tall, athletic, with shoulders like an Atlas, and a will of iron -- at least he thought so; but, like many others of his sex, he somewhat misjudged himself. An elder son, born to an old title and a large estate, he had met with few either able or inclined to thwart his wishes; and so he grew from youth to manhood, firmly impressed with the conviction that he was a person of strong mind and of strong determination, as well able to preside over the councils of the nation, as to convict a poacher from the magisterial bench. At two and twenty he had succeeded to the baronetcy on the death of his father, who broke his neck in the hunting-field; and had found himself master of eleven thousand a year, and guardian of his younger brother Horace. Neither the estate nor the funded property, which was considerable, presented any difficulties to the young heir; but as regarded his brother, he was soon compelled to admit that even lie might find the task of government less easy than he had previously imagined.

Originally intended for the church, in which the Ashton family possessed considerable patronage, Horace had been transferred from Eton to Cambridge, where he had greatly distinguished himself; and had, moreover, obtained a knowledge of the world which induced him to regard with a feeling bordering upon contempt the less courtly breeding of his brother, who had received his education from a private tutor under the roof of his ancestors. But while the tall, slender, elegant student who when at home at rare intervals haunted the music-room and the library, or carried his favourite classic to some solitary dingle in the park, marvelled at the coarse tastes which led the country gentleman to stand breast-high for hours in a marsh, in order to bag a brace of snipes which might have been as skilfully shot by a game-keeper; or plodded across a rough country, to hunt a score of rabbits from their burrows with the assistance of a pack of wiry, keen-eyed dogs; or scampered over bush and brake after a frightened fox -- Sir Hercules on his side sneered at the boy-parson, with his books and papers; his slow step, his impassive features, and his low voice.

Thus the lads had grown up, not together, for they were, as we have already shown, almost constantly separated; but year by year, without a feeling or a sympathy in common; and without ever being enabled to understand each other.

It need scarcely be remarked that the old baronet evinced a strong preference for his elder son; he was to be his heir; he had never left him from the hour of his birth; and, moreover, while the dark-eyed and pale-cheeked Horace was the living image of the meek and gentle mother who had died in giving him birth, the ruddy, stalwart, wilful young gentleman, who at fifteen trolled a drinking song, and took a hurdle with the boldest member of the hunt -- was, as all his friends assured him, a second edition of himself. No marvel, therefore, that when Mr. Horace Westland Ashton was destined for the clerical profession, his own tastes and wishes were never consulted on the occasion.

"Lucky for him;" had been the only observation of his father; "that we have three livings in our gift, for we could have made nothing of such a milksop as a county gentleman. Hang me if I believe that the fellow would have spunk enough to clear a five-barred gate if he were to be pursued by bailiffs."

And it was consequently decided that Mr. Horace Westland Ashton should study for Holy Orders.

The elder brother was in the hunting-field with his father on the day of his fatal fall: but he was mercifully spared the appalling spectacle. He was "in at the death," on the confines of the common; and proudly affixing the "brush" to his hunting-cap, when the old sportsman, who had raised his last view-halloo, was lifted from the ditch where he lay beneath his struggling horse. It was a pitiable sight to see the hale old man, struck down in his strength, slowly borne towards his proud home in the cart of a passing peasant, escorted by the silent band who but an hour before had filled the valley, and made the hills echo with their wild and lusty shouting; while in the midst walked his son -- the pride of his heart, and the hope of his house -- hot with sport, splashed with mud, sullied with dust, and still bearing unconsciously above his brow the drooping trophy of the chase.

There was a pompous funeral; and then the iron gates of the family vault once more closed; and another generation ruled in Ash-ton Court.

Horace had been summoned from Cambridge immediately on the death of his father, by which he was deeply, although undemonstratively, affected. It is true that he had been, even from his boyhood, almost an alien from that father's house; but in his heart was a deep well of hidden feeling, which was not the less profound because no eye had been permitted to penetrate below its surface. He had made none of those college friendships which so frequently act for good or evil over the whole of a man's after-life, and yet he was universally popular; he had contracted no debts, but still no voice had been raised against him either in taunt or reproach; with the habits of a refined gentleman, and the tastes of a scholar, he was guiltless of those petty meannesses which revolt the improvident and the reckless; his shadow fell across no man's path, and he forbore to walk in those of others. There was about him also a melancholy, almost a morbidity, of temperament, which enforced respect even in those who were unconscious of its origin; for Horace Ash-ton, with a superstitious feeling which his more worldly-minded brother would have scouted, (all the more contemptuously that he would have been utterly unable to comprehend it,) had from an early age conceived himself to be living a dual life; for the worthy possession of which he was, in his single visible existence, fully and personally accountable; the life of the mother which had with her last sigh been breathed into his own, and that original existence which he had inherited from both parents. His old nurse never forgot, and frequently related, how all his infant cares could be soothed to rest by a glimpse of the lovely portrait which hung, the last and the fairest, near the right-hand door of the picture gallery; and how, despite all her efforts to the contrary, the first word which his baby-lips had ever uttered was the name of his dead mother. True, she had herself whispered to him as they stood before the graceful lady with the soft dark eyes, and the clouds of raven hair -- "That is your mamma, Horace; your dear mamma;" but she had never anticipated that the lesson would have been so well and so quickly learned. And again: although when the fiat was pronounced, he had made no sign, uttered no word of expostulation or dissent, Horace Ashton had from the early period when he first began to reflect, and to comment upon all that was passing about him, experienced the most decided distaste for the profession which had been selected for him by his father. Naturally energetic by nature, he panted for an opportunity of exertion, of enterprise, of struggle with the world, which might enable him to owe his future fortunes, whatsoever they should prove, to his own efforts; but to be seated down in a rich living, made a pluralist, without even extending a hand to grasp the purple and fine linen which was spread out at his feet, while older, wiser, and better men were pining with want, and sickening with blighted hope around him; to undertake the guidance of other souls while as yet almost unconscious of the existence of his own -- such a prospect depressed and saddened him -- and he wept hot and burning tears as he believed himself powerless to contend against his destiny.

The death of his father, however, opened up new views and new resolutions in the breast of the long-enduring young man. He could no longer disappoint the hopes, or thwart the wishes of Sir Hugh; for the doughty old sportsman had now attained the goal where neither wish nor disappointment could reach him; and accordingly his son had no sooner assisted at the reading of the Will -- where he found himself (in addition, as his father had believed and intended, to the three snug livings which were sooner or later to become his,) with a younger brother's provision of three hundred pounds a year -- than he at once declared to the new baronet that he was at perfect liberty to dispose of his church patronage as he had resolved to abandon all idea of a profession for which he felt himself to be altogether unsuited.

Sir Hercules expostulated in vain. He offered no argument, it is true, affecting his brother's personal happiness or preference; but he talked of the "honour of the family;" inquired how Horace expected to live like a gentleman upon the income of a man-cook; and, in short, after the manner of elder sons, who have been taught from the cradle to think only of themselves and their own interests, he did everything in his power to controvert the views of his brother, save offer to increase the income at which he sneered.

"Do not be alarmed either for the honour of the family, or my own respectability, Sir Hercules;" was the proud reply of Horace to the verbose declamation of the young baronet; "my plans are already decided. What sufficed to maintain me like a gentleman at Cambridge, will, in like manner, enable me to live in India until I succeed in pushing my fortune. You appear, moreover, to have forgotten that I inherit five thousand pounds from my godfather Mr. Westland; a sum which will amply suffice to start me in the world."

"Start you in the world! Are you going to degrade yourself by entering into commerce?"

Horace smiled one of his cold, melancholy smiles; "I shall follow where my destiny leads me," he said quietly.

"By heavens, sir, if you become a trader I will disown you!" exclaimed Sir Hercules; "An Ashton -- the brother of the fourteenth baronet -- a man who might, at the expense of two sermons a month, enjoy as many thousands a-year. You must be a whig, sir; a_ radical, sir; a socialist, sir."

"I am no politician," was the calm reply.

"No politician!" thundered out his brother; "Of course, you are no politician. What has a younger brother to do with politics? I never asked you to become a politician; that is my prerogative. What you have to do is to become a parson."

"I have already told you that my mind is made up upon the subject."

"So be it; and my mind is made up also. Until you are of age you are under my guardianship, and you shall not go to disgrace yourself and your family in India."

"Your authority, Sir Hercules;" was the tranquil rejoinder; "will extend over thirteen months. I will endeavour to submit myself to it with patience."

"You will do well, sir; and, should you be as good as your word, I will undertake to pay your college debts."

"I have none," said Horace, as he lifted a newspaper from the table, and settled himself in his chair.

The baronet gazed at him for a moment in utter astonishment. Even he, under the roof of his father, with ample means, had contrived before he was of age to involve himself to an extent which rendered him somewhat apprehensive of the elasticity of paternal indulgence; and he had consequently carefully guarded the secret of his improvidence until he suddenly found himself irresponsible.

Such was the position of the two brothers on the untimely death of Sir Hugh. A brief visit to Cambridge sufficed to Horace for the cordial leave-taking which separated him probably for ever from his former tutors and associates; and then, without a murmur, or an effort at self-emancipation, he took up his residence at Ashton Court, which soon resumed its accustomed aspect of noisy enjoyment, and indiscriminate hospitality.

No change, however, took place in the calm and retired habits of the young Cantab, save that, superadded to his quiet studies, a continuous correspondence was maintained between himself and some friends in the metropolis, which greatly excited the curiosity, and even the uneasiness, of Sir Hercules; who for several months flattered himself that his brother would weary of what he called his "wild-goose chase," and settle down in the fat livings which had been nursing for him for years; but, tolerably obtuse though he was, the baronet could not avoid a conviction that the voluminous contents of the Aston Court letter-bag, which had until the domestication of Horace under the ancestral roof enjoyed a comparative sinecure, was connected with the darling project to which he was himself so heartily averse. The event proved the justness of his reasoning. The thirteen months gradually went by; and on the morning of the day which marked the majority of Sir Hugh's younger son, he descended to the breakfast-room calm and placid as usual, but with a settled purpose which invested him with a manliness of look and demeanour that he had never before worn in his brother's eyes.

Sir Hercules, after the usual brief salutation habitually observed between them had been uttered, began to feel fidgetty; his very appetite forsook him; but Horace pursued his meal while looking over the letters which were placed beside his plate, as quietly as was his wont.

At length the repast came to an end; an as the baronet, anxious to escape, rose from his seat to leave the room, Horace extended his hand.

"Hercules;" he said; "you are no doubt aware that, since sunrise, we have ceased to be guardian and ward; and that we are at length simply brothers. I am glad of this, for so better we should part, particularly as our parting to-day will, in all probability, be a final one. May you be happy. You have the proud task before you of upholding the honour of our house; I have no such duty before me; neither am I essential to the happiness of any one on earth. Our separation will involve no suffering on either side, for we know little or nothing of each other; nor do I ask you to forget me, for I have already read the human mind and heart deeply enough to be aware that, where there exists no tie of feeling, the memory of mere adventitious relationship is by no means tenacious."

"But you do not mean to say," interposed Sir Hercules; "that I am never to hear of you again?"

"By no means; I am not so presumptuous as to be ignorant that circumstance is frequently stronger than will; I simply meant to imply, that I should not voluntarily intrude upon you with details of my own proceedings, or appeals to your remembrance. It might diminish your zest in the hunting-field were you to be informed on some occasion, that while you were pursuing a fox, I had been devoured by a tiger."

"But suppose that anything should happen to me?" persisted the baronet.

"Oh, the public prints would duly herald your demise;" was the slightly bitter retort; "or your marriage, or the birth of your heir; and beyond these events, I could not expect to know more than I have done while residing under your roof. You see, therefore, that I merely seek to spare you the unaccustomed toil of letter-writing."

"As you please;" said Sir Hercules coldly; while to hide his embarrassment he affected to be carefully examining the lock of his fowling-piece. "You know best; all I hope is, that you will never repent the step that you are taking. You might have been a rich man without an effort. As it is -- "

"As it is," repeated his brother; "I am about to become an exile from my country, with my fortune to make; but of this rest assured, Sir Hercules, that should I fail, you will only learn my failure by the accumulation of my modest income at the banker's. I may sink in the struggle, but I shall never receive alms from the master of Ashton Court. Let us part like friends and brothers, with clasped hands, and mutual good wishes. May all happiness attend you, Hercules. That we do not love each other as some brothers may do, is probably not our own fault -- in any case it is too late to explain, or to regret, the fact. I shall leave for town by the mid-day mail."

"At least have the family coach and the team of greys to the post-town;" urged the baronet.

"You are merry, my good brother," said Horace, as a momentary flush passed over his features; "Have you forgotten that you propose to me an honour which I have never yet enjoyed? No, no; I will make no false start on my journey through life. In an hour the mail will stop for me at the east lodge; and by this day week I trust to have left England, if not for ever, at least for a long term of years."

And thus, coldly and indifferently, parted the two last members of an ancient house, never to meet again on this earth.

CHAPTER II.

A MARRIAGE.

It was a strange sensation with which Sir Hercules Ashton awoke on the morning that succeeded the departure of his brother. He had thought but little, if at all, about him during the previous day; for after having walked with him across the park, as he might have done with any other guest leaving his house by the same conveyance, shaken hands with him at the lodge gate, and seen him comfortably seated on the roof of the vehicle which was to bear him to London, he whistled his dogs to his side; and, accompanied by a gamekeeper, spent the afternoon in shooting; returned to a solitary dinner, worn and wearied by over-exertion, drank more wine than usual, fell asleep in the easy-chair which had once been sacred to the portly person of Sir Hugh; and, finally, sought his bed -- not because he so much needed further rest, as because he really did not know how to occupy his evening.

On the morrow, however, as we have said, he had more time for reflection, and was consequently far from feeling at ease with himself. His solitary breakfast was swallowed, for the first time in his life, without relish; the grave but handsome face which had lately become familiar to him no longer looked out from the opposite chair, which, either by chance or forgetfulness, had been drawn to its accustomed place; while the low but melodious voice, that, even though he affected to his jovial companions to call it missish and maudlin, had made unconscious music to his ear, no longer broke the silence of the spacious room, which now only echoed the footfalls of the busy servants. In spite of his pride and his selfishness, the baronet was compelled to admit to himself that something was wanting to his comfort; and that the something in question was the presence of his only brother.

And how had he parted from that brother? Had he expressed one feeling of affection towards him? -- one sentiment of regret at his departure? -- one anxiety as to his fate? -- Above all, had he opened to him, if not his heart -- he was probably not the master of so supreme a movement as that -- but even his purse? Had he, the heir to eleven thousand a year, offered to share with his less well-portioned brother even the income of a few months? Horace was proud, and would probably have refused such aid; but still it might, and should, have been tendered. And they might never meet again. -- Had Sir Hercules possessed his brother's address in town at that moment, he would assuredly have started off instantly in pursuit of him; but no such information had either been asked or given; and now -- the gulf which Horace had foretold already yawned between them!

For a time Sir Hercules, with the assistance of the neighbouring squires -- for he was by no means addicted to female society, and seldom made his appearance even at a hunt-ball -- contrived to endure his solitary splendour with something like philosophy; but as he could not always command the society even of his favourite associates, he found the evening hours especially hang heavily upon his hands; and at length, in a paroxysm of more than usual weariness, he resolved to spend a season in town. The Ashtons had good connections in London with some of whom he had become acquainted, when, during the sporting season, they came down to thin the preserves of Ashton Court, but he had never hitherto profited by the invitations which had been extended to him by these far-off relatives. Now, however, he remembered with considerable complacency that he should not be altogether a stranger in the great metropolis; and accordingly he made the necessary preparations for what was to be, little as he contemplated such a sequel to his journey, one of the great events of his life.

Sir Hercules was right: he was not destined to be long a stranger in London. He established himself at a first-rate hotel, left his cards at half-a-dozen doors, sported his thoroughbred bay in Rotten Row, and ere long found himself a welcome guest in many a brilliant drawing-room, and a member of two or three of the leading clubs; while he discovered with secret astonishment that he was especially popular in those houses where the "olive branches" were of the feminine gender. Shy, ill at ease, and even awkward in the society of ladies, the wealthy young baronet was utterly at a loss to account for the flattering attentions that were lavished upon him by high-born mothers and fascinating daughters. That their sons and brothers should find a certain pleasure in riding his horses, and winning his money at billiards or ecarté, was natural enough; but that a score of the prettiest girls in London should select him as their chosen escort to balls, exhibitions, and operas, surprised him beyond measure. He could not be induced to stand up in a quadrille -- waltzes and polkas were, of course, entirely out of the question -- he had no ear for music save in the hunting field -- he could not distinguish a Rubens from a Teniers -- a Reynolds from a Landseer -- yet still the fair young creatures fluttered about him, listened to his ponderous compliments with smiles and blushes, and deferred to his opinions with as much reverence as though he were entrusted with the utterance of the divine oracles. No wonder that Sir Hercules began to look upon London in a few brief weeks as an earthly paradise; and himself as a paragon of perfection, which had been too long hidden from the gaze of an admiring world. The natural consequence ensued; and the Leicestershire baronet gradually became a heavy fop. With too much of the innate feeling of a gentleman to degrade himself by showy dress or pompous self-assertion, he was nevertheless too weak-minded to retain the calm dignity which had hitherto been habitual to him; he never once reflected on his social position, and the importance which he derived from it; he attributed all the attention and courtesy of those by whom he was surrounded to his personal qualities; and ere long he found himself receiving as a just tribute the homage which was lavishly poured out upon him.

He returned home rich in new acquaintance, who made his wide halls ring with revelry throughout the hunting season; who were enchanted with the old place, delighted with the sport which he provided for them, and lavish of their professions of friendship.

There had not been so joDy an autumn at Ashton Court within his memory. Even the merry times of good Sir Hugh were outdone, for he had confined his hospitality to his country neighbours and his family connections; whereas his son had been almost indiscriminate in his invitations, and had filled the spacious mansion from roof to foundation. Nor was the Christmas season less gaily passed. Sir Hercules was enchanted with his guests, and the guests were enchanted with Sir Hercules; and accordingly, many among them lingered until the swelling buds upon the trees, and the violets and primroses in the shady recesses of the woods, warned them that another London season was about to commence. Then, indeed, they bade farewell to the old hall, but not to its hospitable master; who, consistent to the last, conveyed the tardiest of his guests to town in a drag, drawn by the team of greys whose services his brother Horace had so peremptorily declined, and driven by his own skilful hand.

At the close of this second season the baronet once more returned to Ashton Court, and if not as before accompanied by a troop of newly-made friends, still he did not return alone. He had been preceded by upholsterers, decorators, and an establishment of town-bred servants; notice had been given to the tenantry of the change which had taken place in his destiny; and as he passed through the gates of the noble park, rich in all the lavish vegetation of midsummer, flowers were strewed upon his path; triumphal arches spanned the road which led to the mansion; masses of brightly-tinted flowers decorated the terraces; rows of liveried menials lined the steps of the portico, and thronged the entrance-hall; and crowds of his tenantry, in holiday dresses, rent the air with their vociferous cries of welcome. Sir Hercules Ashton had brought home his bride!

Many were the comments made upon the tall, stately lady, who, as the baronet assisted her to alight, bowed and smiled on every side ere she entered the house. She was very beautiful, whispered some, though it was not with the meek, soft beauty of the last Lady Ash ton; there was no blush upon her cheek, no flutter in her manner; she was calm and self-possessed to a miracle; but then, added others, no wonder that she is not overcome by the splendour of her new home, for she is an earl's daughter, while our former lady was born in the Rectory. And such was, in fact, the case. Old Sir Hugh cared little for any title prouder than his own; loved rather to confer benefits than to receive them; and, above all, had a shrewd conviction of the importance of a man's supremacy in his own house. He affected no sentiment, and consequently did not profess to marry for love, although he had never failed either in regard or in respect towards the gentle and submissive wife who was the mother of his children. The rector had been his tutor; and he readily made up his mind to marry the rector's daughter, who had been the playmate of his boyhood, and the friend of his youth.

The Reverend Doctor was delighted; the fair bride grateful and affectionate; and when she was early snatched from him by death, he mourned for her as deeply as such a nature as his could mourn for any wife, and vowed never to contract a second marriage; a vow which he religiously fulfilled.

Sir Hercules had been more ambitious; and his self-gratulation was excessive when he grafted on the family tree of the Ashtons a daughter of the lordly house of Disborough. It is true that the earl was nearly bankrupt, and that he would with equal readiness have bestowed the fair hand of Lady Harriette upon a far less eligible suitor; while the young lady herself, after four seasons in town, had become far less exacting than at the period of her Presentation. These, however, were circumstances altogether unguessed at by the exulting bridegroom; whose total indifference to her want of fortune, and magnificent marriage settlements, made many a fond mother sigh, and many a man of fashion smile.

The honeymoon had scarcely waned ere Sir Hercules became aware that the days of jollity were over for Ashton Court; at least during the reign of his own wife. Lady Harriette was afflicted with weak nerves. She could not support the noise of the hare-hounds, and the pet pack became the property of a county neighbour. She burst into tears when informed of the frightful death of old Sir Hugh, and extorted from her husband a solemn pledge that he would hunt no more. The scent of a cigar poisoned her; and it was in vain that poor Sir Hercules stole out into the park or the stable to indulge in the forbidden luxury; detection followed upon every trangression; and he was compelled to forego his oldest and most familiar indulgence. Nor was this all; with a perseverance which would have sufficed to level mountains, the pertinacious Lady Harriette combated, one after the other, every taste and pursuit of her bewildered husband; contemptuously branding some among them as vulgar, and others as undignified and inexpedient; until the once self-willed Sir Hercules, driven from entrenchment to entrenchment, and finally beleaguered in the very citadel of his old associations and habits, fairly surrendered at discretion; and subsided from the dictatorial and boisterous representative of an ancient family, into a quiet and purposeless country gentleman, who was compelled to smother his pride and his disappointment in the recesses of his own heart, and meekly to obey the behests of his more consistently energetic helpmate.

In two years, -- two brief years of struggle -- Lady Harriette Ashton remained master of the field; and all was as dull, as pompous, and as properly-conducted at Ashton Court as even an earFs daughter could desire. In one particular she acted admirably; and that was in entreating Sir Hercules -- and we have already shown the influence of her entreaties -- never to lend her father money. "You received nothing from him;" she said composedly; "and he has consequently no right to expect anything from you. Moreover, help him as you might, it would avail little; for a man who has been unable throughout life to take care of his own money, is not likely to be more provident of yours."

Sir Hercules promised obedience; and was so true to his pledge, that ere long Lord Disborough sought and found a pretext for a rupture, which fortunately relieved his son-in-law from all further importunity.

As years wore on, the baronet became still more decidedly Lady Harriette Ashton s husband, and nothing more; save indeed, as we have already mentioned, the father of a fine boy and two lovely girls, upon whom he positively doated; for, very naturally the children, one and all, poured out upon him the full flood of that affection which the cold stateliness of their mother chilled, if it did not actually repel. On one occasion -- the only one since his marriage -- Sir Hercules had stood firmly to his marital prerogative, and carried his point. As Lady Harriette, a few weeks after the birth of the family heir, was proudly exhibiting the baby to a visitor, a question was casually put by her guest, and as unhesitatingly answered.

"What a fine fellow! What a splendid infant!" had been the exclamation of Mrs. Lorimer; "and what is to be the name of the darling?"

"Oh, Reginald, of course;" was the smiling reply of Lady Harriette; "He is every inch a Disborough, and can bear no name but my father's."

The nurse curtseyed and simpered as she carried off the earl's grandson; and Master Reggy was at once christened in the nursery.

"My dear;" said the baronet, after he had bowed out their guest; "I am sorry that you should have decided on naming our boy Reginald, because it is impossible."

"What is impossible, Sir Hercules?"

"That my son and heir should introduce a strange name into the family."

"I do not understand you. It is the name of his maternal grandfather."

"I am quite aware of that, my love; but for the last four centuries the Ashtons have been Hughs, Horaces, and Hercules's; and the family honour demands that no change should be made in this respect."

"Do you consider it, then, as a degradation that our child should bear the name of the Earl of Disborough?"

"By no means; but at the same time I see no reason why he should do so. We have no communication whatever with your father; no tie, of either interest or affection, binds us to him; we are become strangers to each other; while the family tradition is sacred to me, and I feel pledged to follow the example of my ancestors. You must excuse me therefore if upon this point I am firm. I do not ask you to christen the boy after me, -- indeed, I would rather that it should not be so; but Hugh or Horace it must and shall be."

"Must and shall!" echoed the lady, as the hot blood mounted to her brow.

"It is not often, my dear Lady Harriette;" said Sir Hercules deprecatingly; "that I interfere with your arrangements; but upon the subject under discussion I claim the privilege of a husband and a father."

His listener slightly shrugged her shoulders: there was a world of meaning in the gesture. "Pray proceed," she said coldly.

"There are melancholy associations connected with the name of my father;" pursued the baronet with more firmness than could have been expected from him; "which disincline me to bestow it on my boy; but I have a brother, and it will be pleasant to me to call him after that brother."

"I was not aware that your fraternal affection was so strong, Sir Hercules."

"I can readily believe it;" said the baronet sadly; "for one of the most bitter regrets of my whole existence has arisen from the fact that I never knew how to appreciate my brother, until we were separated. Enough, however, on this subject, which is always a painful one to me. The heir of the Ashtons must bear the name of Horace."

"Is a mother to have no voice in what concerns her child. Sir Hercules?"

"It is with extreme reluctance that I oppose your wishes, my dear Lady Harriette. Do me the favour to remember that it is for the first, and may possibly be for the last time."

And in order to avoid all further argument upon the subject, the baronet, agitated by his own audacity, hastened to leave the room.

The heir of the Ashtons, at his pompous christening, accordingly bore the name of Horace.

Meanwhile, no tidings reached England of the fate or fortunes of that other Horace who had gone to seek a home in a far-off land. In vain did Sir Hercules question the banker from whom twice in the year the self-constituted exile regularly drew his income; all that he could ascertain was the bald fact, that it was remitted through a great mercantile house in Calcutta, and that the principals of the house had declared themselves ignorant alike of the residence and the pursuits of their client.

Thus there was consequently nothing to be done save to wait with patience: and to hope almost against hope, that some fortunate circumstance might induce the wanderer either to return to his native country, or, at all events, to open up a communication with his relations.

Such, however, was not the case. The laughter of three merry little hearts rang through the leafy shrubberies and along the stately terraces of Ashton Court, and still the uncle Horace in India was a mere family tradition. The boy grew rapidly, alike in stature and in intelligence, and was struggling his way through the fagdom of Eton; while the gazelle-eyed Florence and the fair-haired Matilda were studying the virtues and the graces of girlhood under the skilful care of Madame Despreaux and her assistants, at the period when this tale commences; but not a word of greeting from the brother of Sir Hercules had yet reached the home of his infancy.

CHAPTER III.

A CONSIGNMENT.

Sir Hercules Ashton -- neither allowed to hunt because it was dangerous; nor to play cricket because it was vulgar; nor to receive his country neighbours more than twice a year because it was ungentlemanlike and plebeian to drink toasts, and to make the old halls ring with the "hip, hip, hurrah!" by which such banquets had been terminated from time immemorial, -- finished by resigning himself to his fate. He shot occasionally it is true, but he soon lost all zest for an amusement at which he had almost scoffed in his earlier days; and as the number of his gamekeepers was diminished at the request of Lady Harriette, who talked philanthropically of the waste of human life of which preserving game had been the idle and iniquitous cause for centuries, and the amount of poachers on her husband's estate necessarily increased in a corresponding degree, it followed, as a matter of course, that from year to year there was a gradual and sensible diminution in the party which assembled at Ashton Court in the last days of August to enjoy the sports of the field; and which dwindled away, "small by degrees, and beautifully less," until, at the time which must occupy our attention, the long-standing and general invitation to which so many had once cheerfully and eagerly responded, had not been accepted by a single individual; and the formerly-active Sir Hercules who was on foot from sunrise to sunset, thwarted in all his habits, and driven as a last resource to the disorganising pleasures of the table for relaxation and enjoyment, had grown prematurely gouty and decrepit.

All had become so orderly and so methodical at Ashton Court, that a violent ringing at the gate of the stable-yard caused Lady Harriette almost to bound upon her chair.

"Really, Sir Hercules;" she said pettishly; "your people have grown so disorderly of late that they take the most unwarrantable liberties. -- Did you hear that bell?"

"Yes, my love; yes;" replied the baronet, yawning fearfully as he stroked down his throbbing ancle; "and no doubt something unusual has occurred."

"What can have occurred? -- Such a supposition is absurd."

Sir Hercules was spared all reply by the entrance of the venerable butler, who handed to him a packet of most portentous dimensions.

"A special messenger from the post-town Sir Hercules. He has ridden hard; shall I direct him to refresh his horse?"

Certainly, Andrews, certainly; and himself too!" cried the baronet, with his eyes rivetted on the bulky dispatch which he held in his hand; "and be careful to let me know before he leaves the house, as I may have to entrust him with a reply."

Lady Harriette took up a review, and was soon apparently absorbed in its perusal.

Meanwhile Sir Hercules rose with an unsteady step, and approached the window; then he hurriedly tore open the letter, grasped a chair that stood near to him, into which he sunk with a gasping sigh, passed his hand over his eyes for an instant, and finally read what follows:

"Calcutta,

"August 10th, 18 -- 

"Sir Hercules Ashton,

"Sir,

"I herewith have the honour to apprise you that, on my departure from Calcutta on the fourteenth of May last, I was entrusted by Messieurs Trueman and Braveby, (merchants of that city,) with the care of Miss Ella Ashton your niece, and her native Ayah; and that the same have been safely disembarked in London, where they await your orders. Your brother, Mr. Horace Westland Ashton having, on his decease (which occurred on the 9th of the preceding month), given orders that they should be consigned to your care. The young lady and her attendant are now awaiting your pleasure at the Blue Boar, in Holborn, together with their effects, which you will find all correct, as per invoice; their passage paid, and all expenses discharged, save such as they may be compelled to incur at the said hotel.

"I have the honour to be,

"Sir,

"Your obedient Servant,

"John Henry Burton.

"On board the Eastern Star,

"East India Docks."

Dead! His only brother -- the Horace whom he had almost driven from the home of his fathers -- for whose return he had looked and longed year after year -- was then lost to him for ever. -- Dead! their hands were never to meet again -- their voices never again to utter a mutual greeting. All was over! For a moment every thing was a blank to poor Sir Hercules; and as the letter fell from his unnerved hand, he fell back with a groan upon the cushions of his chair.

Lady Harriette, who despite her presumed occupation had not lost sight of his slightest movement, instantly rushed to his side.

"My dear Sir Hercules!" she exclaimed anxiously; "what ill news have you received?"

"He is dead!" was the gasping reply; "I shall never see him more."

"Dead! Who is dead?"

"He whom I loved so well -- more, far more, than either he or I ever suspected: my poor, poor Horace!"

"Horace!" shrieked his wife; "My own my noble boy? -- When? -- where? -- how?"

"Calm yourself, my love, calm yourself,' faltered the baronet appalled by the wildness of her looks; "it is not our boy; it is my brother, my poor exiled brother, who is no more."

Lady Harriette sank upon a sofa in a state of mental collapse. The proud woman had experienced for one brief moment that sorrow and disappointment might reach even her; but she soon rallied; and again approaching her husband, she laid her hand softly upon his shoulder; and while still thrilling throughout her whole frame from the effect of the shock which she had undergone, she nevertheless found strength to utter the commonplace words of consolation which those who have escaped suffering are ever so prompt to lavish upon such as suffer.

"Come, come, my dear Sir Hercules;" she said, in her blandest accents; "do not allow yourself to be thus unmanned by a misfortune, which, after all, is purely imaginary. Remember that you have been parted from your brother for years: that you have not even had tidings of him; that, in point of fact, he has long ceased to exist for you. Surely you are not to blame if he persisted in carving out his own fortune in his own way, when it was already secured to him in one much more eligible. This is really a weakness at which you should be the first to blush. Besides, you are in the last position in the world to justify so violent an emotion as that to which you are now yielding. Have you not a wife and children? Are you not blessed with station, affluence, and all the goods of this world? Must I remind you -- "

"You need remind me of nothing;" interposed the conscience-stricken man; "It was too great a confidence in my own strength which led me to abuse my authority over poor Horace. I have but one consolation for the past -- but one -- and that is, that he has bequeathed to me the guardianship of his child."

"His child!" echoed Lady Harriette, lifting her hand by a spasmodic movement from his shoulder; "Has Mr. Horace Ashton left a child?"

"I am thankful to say that he has. But you had better read that letter -- aloud, if you please, for I have not yet thoroughly mastered its contents."

Lady Harriette complied.

"Poor child! poor child!" groaned the baronet; "an orphan she must be, for there is no mention made of her mother. But we must not lose an instant in claiming her. I would myself take the mail at once, but that it would be no fitting conveyance for a delicate girl, just released from a long sea-voyage, and cast among strangers. Think for me, my dear, think for me, for my poor brain is quite bewildered; and of late I have been so unaccustomed to act for myself."

"Surely Mr. Horace Ashton must have left proper instructions," commenced Lady Harriette.

"No doubt he has, ray love; no doubt he has;" broke in the agitated Sir Hercules; "but it will be time enough to ascertain his wishes when his child is safe under our own roof. I will order post horses, and start for town to-night."

"You will oblige me by doing nothing of the kind, Sir Hercules;" said his lady in an accent to which he was only too well accustomed; "You have as yet by no means overcome your last fit of gout, and you are in no condition to travel. If you really consider it necessary to send the carriage to town for Miss Ella Ashton, I cannot think it equally so that you should be made the victim of a false and morbid feeling of duty, by exposing yourself to a relapse. No doubt my woman could take all necessary care of the young lady; and, in so extreme a case, I am quite willing to put up for a few days with the services of the children's maid."

Sir Hercules was profuse in his expressions of gratitude. It is true that even suffering as he was from latent gout, he would have preferred, had he been permitted to exert his own will, to have escorted his niece in his proper person to her future home, for such he had already resolved that Ashton Court should be; but he felt totally unable to resist so unwonted a display of tenderness and self-abnegation on the part of his wife; and accordingly it was arranged that early on the following morning the family coach should be dispatched with post-horses. Mademoiselle Sophie, and a liberal cheque upon his banker, to settle the hotel-bill, and convey the little stranger and her attendant to Leicestershire.

Gradually, as certain probabilities presented themselves to her mind, Lady Harriette became more and more reconciled to the intrusion of her unknown niece into the family circle; and while Sir Hercules, who "had suffered persecution and learnt mercy," was thinking only of the helpless child; and congratulating himself that he should at last be enabled to redeem his shortcomings towards the father by affection and care to the interesting little being who had been so confidingly entrusted to his protection, his wife was building castles in the air, each more lofty and more brilliant than the last.

In the good old times, when railroads were not, and the pagoda tree had not yet been shaken to its very roots, the idea of India was associated with stupendous visions of wealth in the minds of the home-staying people of England; and it is consequently not surprising, that, as she sat and pondered over the occurrence which had just taken place. Lady Harriette soon succeeded in convincing herself that the orphan daughter of her brother-in-law must of necessity be a nabob's heiress. Horace Ashton was possessed of a few thousands when he left England; and how many colossal fortunes had been made by individuals who had landed in the East, absolutely penniless! He had, moreover, been in the receipt of a regular income, although it was of limited amount; and, above all, he had never applied to his elder and more wealthy brother for pecuniary aid. All these circumstances were marvellously in favour of her hypothesis; and she at last actually began to ask herself whether the advent of the richly-endowed orphan might not militate against the matrimonial prospects of her own daughters, who could scarcely aspire to more than ten thousand pounds a-piece. Still, on the other hand, the residence of a wealthy relative and ward under the roof of her husband offered advantages enough to counterbalance even this objection; and then the girls were still so young, that it was impossible to speculate upon contingencies. A vague idea even floated over her mind, although she endeavoured to banish it, of the fatal effects frequently produced upon weakly constitutions by a sudden change of climate, diet, and habits. She wished that she already knew the precise age and temperament of the little girl; and then she lost herself in a host of conjectures, which made the hours fly past with a rapidity quite unusual.

It was not that Lady Harriette really hoped to find the orphan sickly and ailing, and to see her droop and die under the grey skies and chilly fogs of England; by no means; she would have shuddered at the very thought; but she had been sufficiently initiated into the value of money before her marriage, to estimate it at something more than its just value; and -- in short -- our thoughts are vagrants who will wander hither and thither in spite of us; and so, having no other occupation, those of the mistress of Ashton Court overran a vast extent of country, and lost themselves more than once in cross-roads and by.paths into which they had no right to penetrate.

In the school-room alone did the anticipated arrival of the young wayfarer excite unmitigated delight; and Florence and Matilda were never wearied of assailing their indulgent governess with questions about India; its natives, its productions, and its extent. One thing only threw a damp upon their joy. Madame, in order to satisfy their curiosity by every means in her power, brought from the library an illustrated work, in which, to their dismay, they discovered that "the human face divine" was painted in darker colours in that far-off land than in their own.

"But can it be possible, Madame," asked Florence, "that our little cousin will be black, or even copper-coloured?"

"Do not alarm yourself, my dear child;" was the smiling rejoinder; "you must remember that her papa was an European; and that it is very improbable that Mr. Horace Ashton would marry a black woman."

"But suppose -- " ventured Matilda.

"I can suppose nothing so absurd. I am quite prepared to see our new inmate with eyes as black as your sister's, and with hair perhaps even darker; for it is a singular fact that children born of European parents in that climate are frequently influenced by it; but rely on what I tell you, that you have no further cause for alarm. Let us rather feel anxiety as to the temper and disposition of your little cousin than with regard to her personal appearance; and even should she prove less amiable than we have every reason to hope, we must never forget that she is an orphan, fatherless and motherless, torn from all the associations of her childhood, and dependent upon us for her future happiness. Remember this always, my dear children; and let the poor little girl prove what she may, you, who have been surrounded from your birth with affection and indulgence, will find it an easy task to bear with her, and love her."

Such was the state of feeling in Ashton Court as the orphan Ella journeyed towards her new home.

CHAPTER IV.

AN ARRIVAL.

"Ha!" joyfully exclaimed Lady Harriette, a day or two after the startling news of the advent of their new relative had reached Ashton Court; "A letter from Horace, I declare! I scarcely expected to hear from him again before the holidays."

"And what says the boy?" asked Sir Hercules.

Lady Harriette read aloud -- 

"My dear Mother,

"You, who can do anything and everything with the good governor (to whom I send my best love, as well as to the girls), must ask him, if you wish to be particularly agreeable to your dutiful son, to write and invite my very intimate friend Frank Hatherston to spend the Christmas holidays with me, or all my fun will be spoilt. I am his fag, and he is the best fellow in the world -- a regular trump. Don't be afraid, my dear lady-mother, he's all right; got two aunts peeresses; and being an orphan, is the adopted darling of a rich old uncle, an East India Director. He really is a prime fellow; and as his uncle is going to Scotland for the winter to see some laird or another who was his college chum a century ago; and as Frank has a respectable horror of heather and mountain-dew, he wants a good excuse for not travelling the same road; so I volunteered Ash ton Court, and the fellow likes the idea vastly. Tell the girls to get their best bibs and tuckers ready; not that we shall trouble them much, but as they are my sisters, why, I want them to look as well as possible. Nothing new here, except that old Fuzbos has had the gout pretty sharply on, and off, this last half; tell this to the governor, as it may be a consolation.

"Now, there is another suggestion which I would humbly venture to make; and that is, that should the said worthy old governor be just now firm on his legs, he should bring the invitation instead of writing it. Hatherston and I will undertake to show him the lions, and to dine with him every day at the hotel, so that he could not be dull; and the acquaintance would be made with 'the head of the house,' in the pleasantest way in the world for Frank. By the-bye, I forgot to tell you that he is rising eighteen, a capital Grecian, and one of our best cricketters. And won't we row the girls about the lake, and shoot the wild-fowl! Let me know soon if we may expect the governor.

"Your affectionate Horry."

"What an excessively thoughtless arrangement!" said Lady Harriette as she refolded the letter, in an accent which betrayed the impossibility of disputing the will and pleasure of her son and heir. "Just as your niece is coming too, it seems scarcely correct to introduce a youth of eighteen into our family circle; nor do I quite like it on account of our own girls. Two strangers domesticated in the house will interfere terribly with their studies."

"Never mind their studies for a few weeks, my dear;" said the peace-loving baronet, who, like his wife, did not appear to have the most remote idea of contradicting the young Etonian; "and, as to any other consideration, rely on it that Madame Despreaux will take good care, not only of our girls, but of the little Creole into the bargain."

"Little Creole, Sir Hercules!" almost shrieked Lady Harriette. "You cannot surely imagine that your brother -- that Mr. Horace Ashton -- married a black woman?"

"Not quite so bad as that, I hope;" said the baronet, caressing his gouty foot; "however, we shall see -- we shall see. One thing at least is certain. I cannot go to Eton to fetch the boys for two reasons: in the first place, I am not in a state to travel: and, in the next, I wish to be at home to welcome my niece on her arrival."

"Then you will write of course," said her ladyship.

"Certainly; by all means; we cannot thwart the lad in such a trifle -- and it is only natural that he should wish to have a friend of his own age as a companion."

"Of his own age, Sir Hercules!" expostulated his wife. "A youth of eighteen!"

"Well, near enough, near enough for all purposes of amusement and companionship;" was the reply. "For my part, it appears to me to be an excellent idea. Anything that will make Horry fond of his home will please me."

"But his parents -- his sisters -- Surely they should suffice to do this," said Lady Harriette.

"All very right, my dear: but a boy of fifteen wearies of a gouty father, and three sets of petticoats. Depend on it, if you would make a man of him, he must have companions of his own sex."

"I think that Eton is making a man of him quite fast enough;" said the mother with all a mother's jealousy. "Look at Florence, who is only his junior by a year. She is still a perfect child: while Horace -- "

"Just as it should be -- just as it should be;" interposed the baronet. "Why, my lady, you would be the last person on earth to wish for a son who could be tied to the apron-string of a governess. No, no; we want no milksops in the Ashton family. Horry is a fine, spirited young fellow, and will do credit to his name. What is the use of a public school, if it is not to make boys manly and independent; and to teach them to elbow their own way through the world?"

"Horace is certainly a fine, gentlemanlike lad;" said Lady Harriette complacently. "But I wish we knew more of this bosom friend of his -- of this Mr. Frank Hatherston."

"Oh, we shall soon make acquaintance;" said the baronet. "And you see Horry has been prudent enough to acquaint us with his. family connexions, which appear quite satisfactory. I confess that I am a vast deal more anxious about my orphan niece than about these two scapegraces from Eton."

"There can be no doubt, I suppose," ventured Lady Harriette, "that your brother has made a proper provision for his daughter."

"I imagine so; I hope so;" said Sir Hercules; "but, as this is the first news which I have had of him since we parted, all is of course merely conjecture on my part."

"It is, however, fair to infer that such is the case;" pursued the lady; "or Mr. Horace Ashton, aware, as he must necessarily have been, that you have a family of your own, would surely never have so unceremoniously burthened you with his daughter and her attendant."

"Really, my love," said Sir Hercules, "if poor Horace did, by some unfortunate chance, die poor, his only brother was the very person to offer a home and a welcome to his orphan girl. However, that is a question which I do not think we need discuss. People rarely come from India beggars. In any and every case, my heart and arms will be open to her: and so, I feel sure, will yours."

"Of course any relative of yours will be welcome to me;" said Lady Harriette; who, as we have shown, had visions of her own which she did not seek to dissipate.

"Should the poor child resemble her father," said Sir Hercules musingly, and as if he had neither awaited nor heeded the rejoinder of his wife, "she must be remarkably handsome; for Horace was a splendid fellow, six feet high; with eyes as black as sloes, and the true Ashton nose and chin."

"In that case," smiled Lady Harriette, "should she prove an heiress and a beauty, we shall, perhaps, have to greet her some years hence as a daughter-in-law. Stranger things have happened."

"They have indeed;" assented the baronet: "and right glad should I be to make the child of Horace really my own. It would do my heart good to feel that we had become more closely bound together after his death than we had ever been while he lived."

"I am actually becoming anxious to see the little girl," said Lady Harriette. "She will probably be about the age of Matilda; and they will make charming playfellows."

Again and again, before the arrival of the orphan, was the subject mooted by Lady Harriette Ashton; even the prospect of her son's approaching return home lost something of its usual importance in her mind; and, when she had canvassed it on every side with her husband, she carried her suppositions and inferences to the school-room; where, during the hours of recreation, which Florence and Matilda passed in the home-park, or driving with their father, she held long conferences with the amiable and right-minded Madame Despreaux, who was thoroughly dazzled by the golden prognostics of her excited companion.

"This little girl will be a treasure to me;" she said. "A new pupil will excite emulation: and if she is docile and affectionate, we shall soon become good friends."

"Sir Hercules thinks it probable that she will be very handsome."

"Then I may fairly challenge the whole county!" exclaimed Madame. "For I shall be the mistress, if not the mother, of the Graces!"

"And there seems little doubt," pursued Lady Harriette with a gratified bow, "that she is an heiress. I think, Madame, that we will put her into the blue room. It has a southern aspect, and her native nurse can occupy the octagon closet which opens from it. I fear that she will suffer a good deal from change of climate, poor child! particularly as she has reached England at so cold a season."

"Pauvre petite!" murmured Madame. "But we will warm her with affection, with love; and she will learn to forget her hot skies and burning suns."

"To-morrow," said her ladyship, "we shall put on our mourning. She must find us outwardly, as well as inwardly, sympathising in her grief. The feelings of children are keen; and I am anxious that her first impression of her new family should be a favourable one."

"Miladi is quite right;" said the Frenchwoman. "It will do her little heart good to be so well understood."

On the morrow, accordingly, the family and the whole establishment at Ashton Court appeared in deep mourning: all invitations for the ensuing month were declined; and Sir Hercules warmly expressed his gratitude to his wife for the care and anxiety with which she had superintended the arrangements that were to secure the comfort and happiness of his orphan niece.

And at length that niece arrived. The carriage in which she had travelled, with its four steaming posters, drew up before the principal entrance of the mansion; and in five minutes more, a tall, muscular woman as black as jet, with a head-dress and flowing robes of white muslin, her wrists and ancles encircled by ponderous gold bracelets and anklets, entered the drawing-room, bearing in her arms a shapeless mass, closely enveloped in a bright scarlet shawl.

Her large flashing eyes rather glared than glanced round her for an instant; and then, rapidly approaching Sir Hercules, she sobbed rather than uttered; "Massa Sahib! please love brother's piccaninny."

"I will, I will; even as I love my own dear children;" exclaimed the baronet earnestly, as he extended his arms towards the ayah; still in doubt whether it were a mere infant, or a young girl, whom he was about to hold to his bosom.

A bright smile flashed across the ebon face of the Indian woman; then murmuring a few words in the melodious language of her own land, she stooped softly down, and carefully withdrawing the ample cashmere which had covered her charge, she placed upon her feet a little creature, so small, so frail, and so strange looking, that even Sir Hercules himself was betrayed into an exclamation which savoured more of amazement than of welcome; while Lady Harriette fell back in her chair positively sick at heart. There stood the beautiful heiress of her dreams, clinging to the dress of her nurse, and scowling from under her long black eyelashes, not a scowl of temper but of terror. It was impossible even to guess at her age; for all that could be distinguished were eyes of such an extraordinary size that they appeared to absorb one half of her face, a sickly complexion of a pale yellow, and an enormous mass of purple-black hair, dragged, rather than bound about her small head. She was dressed in the deepest mourning, from which her bare arms gleamed out sallow, and immeasurably long: nothing, in short, could be more piteous and repulsive than the whole aspect of the poor little orphan, to persons who had not yet learned to love her.

A momentary pause ensued, during which the ayah, who glanced angrily from Sir Hercules to Lady Harriette, and from Lady Harriette back to Sir Hercules, appeared as if she were about to snatch her darling up again, and to carry her away from the inhospitable home where she had met with so cold a welcome; and doubtless, such was the first impulse of the attached and faithful attendant; but, in the next instant, a sense of her utter helplessness in a strange land came over her, and bending down until she held her nursling in her arms, she wept bitterly.

Her tears aroused Sir Hercules at once. "Ella, my little Ella;" he exclaimed gaspingly; "will you not come to me? will you not love the brother of your father?"

"Papa, papa!" shrieked the child, resisting the efforts of her nurse to lead her towards her uncle: "take me to papa."

Again the ayah strove to soothe her, but in vain; she trembled like a bird in the hand of the fowler.

"Lady Harriette," said the baronet, "would it not be well to send for Florence and Matilda? The sight of other children may perhaps reassure this poor frightened dove."

"I will go myself and bring them here, if you desire it, Sir Hercules;" was the cold reply; "as I should not wish them to come unprepared, and to be unnecessarily terrified."

The Indian woman turned upon the speaker another of her scorching glances as she left the room, and again addressed the child; but she could produce no effect upon the shattered nerves of her nursling, whose large eyes wandered restlessly over the apartment, as though seeking some means of escape.

The baronet was bewildered; he felt like one under a dark spell. Could this really be the daughter of the magnificent Horace, whose stately form and glorious countenance were at that moment vividly before him'?

"What age is this poor child?" he asked.

The ayah extended six of her fingers.

"Is that possible?"

"True, sahib."

"Poor little thing! Poor little thing!" sighed the disappointed uncle; "she is a delicate plant, and must be carefully nursed. -- If she would only let us love her!"

"Ella much love," said the ayah.

"Try then to love me, Ella;" whispered Sir Hercules as he approached and took her hand, which she instantly snatched away with an imperious gesture.

At that instant Lady Harriette returned, accompanied by her daughters.

"Go and kiss your new cousin, my dears;" she said, resuming her seat; "for if you cannot succeed in making her sociable, the case appears to me to be hopeless."

The two girls obeyed; and they had no sooner advanced with smiles upon their lips towards their new guest, than tossing back her long hair, she made a step forward, and stretched out a hand to each with all the condescending dignity of a baby-queen. As she did so she smiled in her turn, and displayed teeth so dazzlingly white, and so strongly contrasting with the sallowness of her complexion, that for an instant she appeared scarcely human, but rather like some unearthly sprite or fairy-changling. The smile died away, however, almost instantaneously; and then, withdrawing her hands from the clasp in which they were held before the pre-ordained embrace could be given, she turned appealingly to her nurse, who nodded significantly in reply, and took a small casket from her pocket. As the child received it, an expression of melancholy, painfully deep and concentrated for one of her years, darkened over her face; but she soon overcame the emotion and drawing two massive chains of gold from the case, she glanced rapidly from one sister to the other, whispering almost inaudibly: "For Florence -- for Matilda -- from papa."

"Do you not understand, my dear girls?" said Lady Harriette, approaching the group: "your cousin brings you each a present from her home. Have you no thanks to offer for so rich a gift?"

"Ah! Ella, and I who asked only a kiss have been refused;" said the baronet reproachfully. The orphan fastened her wild weird-like gaze on him for an instant; and then, with a timid and faltering step, walked slowly towards him, raised one of his hands to her lips, and bowed her head over it. Sir Hercules clasped her fondly in his arms. "You will learn to love us yet;" he murmured, as the little head rested on his bosom.

"It is now my turn, dear Ella;" said Lady Harriette, in whose busy fancy the costly offering made to her daughters had conjured up anew the magnificent visions of the previous week, which had for awhile been dispelled by the extraordinary appearance of the little stranger; but the child, as if unconscious of the invitation, after gently withdrawing herself from the clasp of the Baronet, again joined the sisters, and presented a cheek to each. She had evidently been acting in obedience to a lesson previously learnt, and her overtaxed nerves could endure no more. She hung her head for an instant, and then, with a bound like that of a young panther, sprang to the neck of her attendant.

"Poor little innocent!" said Sir Hercules. "Let us not torture her further. Every thing is so new and so strange about her; and she must be sorely wearied. Had she not better rest for a-while in her own room?"



"Sahib, yes," said the ayah. The baronet rang the bell; and the three children withdrew, accompanied by the Indian woman.

"What a singular little being!" exclaimed Lady Harriette, as the door closed behind them: "What an extraordinary marriage your brother must have made. Sir Hercules."

"She is certainly a strange" child;" was the somewhat mortified reply; "But we must give her time. She is evidently terrified to death."

"Terrified!" echoed his wife; "I think it is rather we who have a right to be terrified. Whoever beheld such a little object! Why she scarcely looks human! And only to imagine that I was dreaming I should find in her the future bride of my noble Horace! It is well for the Ashtons, my dear Sir Hercules, that she was not a boy; or the family type, of which you are so vain, would have disappeared altogether."

"Time may do a great deal for her," observed the baronet.

"Time is seldom a cosmetic for our sex;" said Lady Harriette; "However, the subject of her personal appearance is set at rest for ever, poor thing! And one fact is at least consolatory, that, if she has a good fortune, there will be little fear of her being left upon our hands. Did you learn anything about her circumstances from the ayah after I left the room?"

"I asked no questions, my dear. I was anxious to conciliate the child, and never thought about her fortune. We have time enough before us: and no doubt her nurse has papers in her charge which will yield us all necessary information."

"The chains which she has given to the girls are superb;" said the lady, lingering over the subject; "and are, of themselves, a satisfactory earnest of the news which we are likely to hear."

"Aye, those chains!" sighed Sir Hercules; "I was deeply touched by those chains. They proved to me that, although so long parted from my brother, I had never been forgotten, for that he was even aware of the names of my children. Did you not remark, my love, that, as she offered them to our darlings, she said, 'For Florence -- for Matilda -- from papa?'"

"Yes;" said Lady Harriette; "Yes, I remarked it: and it was certainly very graceful of your brother, to remember such a circumstance at such a time."

Sir Hercules saw no more of his orphan niece that day; for she had no sooner taken possession of the spacious guest-room which opened to the south, than she cried herself to sleep. Nor could she, when again awake, be induced to leave it: while the ayah, on her side, accepted the decision of her nursling without one remonstrance; and, as she crouched beside the bed, her heart swelled, and her bosom heaved with indignation against the stern and haughty lady who had feared that the sight of her own precious charge might terrify her more beautiful cousins. Fearful was the expression which flitted across the sable face of the faithful Indian as the offensive words rang again and again in her ears. A bitter seed was already sown, and in a soil where it was not likely to lie dormant.

CHAPTER V.

THE COUSINS.

Lady Harriette Ashton passed a restless night. She was anxious and uncomfortable. All that she had been able to ascertain relating to her new niece, was the fact that Mademoiselle Sophie had examined the luggage of the travellers, which, she declared to be enormous in amount. "Indeed, miladi;" she concluded; "had this little demoiselle come from my own dear Paris, instead of from that barbarous India where she was born, she could not have brought away more coulis, even if she had emptied the magazins of the boulevard des Italiens, and the salons of Madame Herbault."

This was something. But still Lady Harriette's nerves were excited, and her sleep was disturbed. When she fell into an uneasy slumber, she dreamt of plains enamelled with Cachemire shawls: groves of trees such as Aladdin saw in the enchanted cavern, where every fruit and flower was a costly jewel: and rivers of molten gold.

So far, all was pleasant enough: but, unfortunately, this was not all; for, over these plains, among these groves, and along these rivers, bounded, leapt, and glided, a strange, weird-looking little being, half-child, half-imp, with large, flashing, black eyes, a mass of disordered hair, and limbs of unnatural length: while at intervals those eyes glared and glittered as they met her own, with an expression of haughty defiance which thrilled to her very soul.

Sir Hercules had his dreams also: but they did not resemble those of his wife. For a while he was a boy again; wild, haughty, and impetuous; and beside him moved a younger and gentler brother, who sometimes became invisible, and again and again reappeared in his vision, only, on each occasion, more manly, more sad, and more self-centred. Then they were men -- together, and yet parted -- together in person, but parted in spirit: and next he stood alone, and gazed long and anxiously over the sea: night fell, and morning rose, and still he stood looking seaward, until at length, after a weary watch, the tall figure of Horace was visible in the distance, walking upon the water: and, as his brother came nearer, the baronet could discern that he carried a burthen in his arms, from which he never raised his eyes until he had approached within a yard or two of the watcher upon the shore; when suddenly the waves parted with a loud crash, and there was a deep gulf between them; but across that gulf the shadow stretched forth its arms with a bright smile, and placed in those of the sleeper a little child. Sir Hercules instinctively bent down to press his lips upon its cheek, and when he again looked up the shadow had disappeared. He started and awoke: but he felt that his wild dream had still more endeared the orphan to his heart: as though, in very truth, he had received her from his brother's hands.

Morning dawned at last, and the sounds of busy life were ere long audible throughout the mansion. The sunlight lay warm upon the glades in the park, and burnished the topmost branches of the forest-timber; the birds sang their song of thanksgiving among the boughs: the deer roused themselves from sleep, and shook the dew-drops from their speckled coats; and in, through every open window, streamed the pure breeze, perfumed with the breath of a thousand blossoms. It was one of those glorious autumn mornings which seem to lavish all their sweets without stint or grudging, ere the first chill of winter withers their scented blossoms.

The early hours went by; and then the breakfast-bell summoned the inmates of the house to their morning meal. The glass doors of the pleasant room which opened upon the terrace were thrown back, and the sunlight gleamed in, stretching its golden fingers over the rich carpet, and playing upon the pannelled walls. There was a bright fire in the grate however, for Sir Hercules, who was rapidly becoming a confirmed invalid, could not support the chill air of the morning; and beside this fire his chair was already placed. The emotion of the previous day and night had exhausted him, and he leant even more heavily than usual upon the arm of his attendant; but still there was a feeling of happiness at his heart, which silenced every murmur.

Lady Harriette was by no means equally placable. She had been harassed by her dream, and as Mademoiselle Sophie had confidentially declared to Madame Despreaux, "miladi etait sur les dents!" Accustomed to rule all and everything within the influence of her will, she felt herself injured by the mystery which had suddenly grown up about her. The explanatory papers ought to have been forthcoming when Mr. Horace Ashton's daughter was so unceremoniously introduced beneath her roof; she ought to have understood her position in the family at once; and her annoyance was the greater, as she could not conceal from herself, that Sir Hercules had exhibited in relation to the hideous little being who was henceforward to be the companion of her daughters, an independence of manner and expression of which she had long believed him incapable. Now all this was eminently provoking to a nature like that of Lady Harriette; and her thin lips were consequently more compressed than usual, when she joined her husband in the breakfast-room.

"Our own dear girls are well, I hear;" said the baronet, as she seated herself at table; "but I have not as yet had any news of our little ward."

"Oh, there can be no doubt that she has slept soundly;" was the reply; "she must have found herself more comfortable here than at her Holborn hotel. All I myself know of her is, that she has declined the invitation of Madame to breakfast in the schoolroom with her cousins; and that she remains shut up with that frightful black woman."

"We must have patience, my dear. Her little heart is heavy; and all is strange about her. After breakfast, however, I will question the ayah, and learn whatever she may be able to tell us."

Somewhat soothed by this assurance. Lady Harriette took up the "Morning Post," and trifled with her chocolate until the baronet had also brought his equally frugal meal to an end; but this was no sooner the case than she rang the bell, and desired that Miss Ella Ashton's maid might be informed that Sir Hercules desired to see her immediately.

The summons was shortly afterwards obeyed. The ayah entered the room respectfully, but with the quiet confidence of one who felt the importance of her trust; and awaited in silence the pleasure of the master of the mansion.

"Diana;" said Sir Hercules; "for such I understand is your name -- there can be no doubt that my dear late brother must have felt the most perfect confidence in your fidelity and worth, or he would not have entrusted his orphan daughter to your care."

"Sahib, yes," was the brief reply.

"You must consequently also have papers of importance to deliver to me."

"Sahib, yes."

"Where are those papers?"

The woman pointed towards the road by which she had arrived.

"I understand you to mean that they are with Miss Ashton's luggage."

"Sahib, yes."

"That is unfortunate;" said the baronet; "you would have done better had you brought them with you. However, they will soon arrive; and meanwhile I should be glad to hear all that you can tell me about my poor brother -- and his wife -- and this unfortunate child."

"Not unfortunate, Sahib;" exclaimed the Indian woman indignantly; "my child."

"Her child!" cried Lady Harriette; "What say you now, Sir Hercules, to the bequest of your brother? I need no longer refrain from admitting that I suspected some such catastrophe as this. But you cannot, you mud not, submit to such a degradation. The child of a black mother is no fitting associate for my daughters."

"Do not, I entreat of you; do not forget that she is still the orphan of my only brother;" said the baronet trembling with emotion; "but there must be some mistake."

"Mistake! what mistake can there possibly be?" asked his wife hysterically; "Do you not understand that this slave-woman is the sister-in-law of the daughter of the Earl of Disborough?"

"Are you indeed the mother of Ella Ashton?" asked Sir Hercules emphatically, as he fixed his eyes searchingly on the Indian.

"No slave-woman;" was the proud answer; "free-woman. When Begum modder die, Dia modder to piccaniny -- love him for child; Sahib say, Dia child; Dia say die for child, Dia rich, berry rich; child Begum; Dia not care for gold, care for piccaniny."

"Yes, yes; when the child's mother died, you became a second mother to her orphan;" hurriedly answered the baronet in his turn. "But who was her natural mother?"

The ayah bowed her head upon her breast for a moment, and heavy sobs burst from her overcharged heart, but she soon rallied; "Modder of piccaniny great Begum; proud like her" -- and she extended her arm towards Lady Harriette: "but face not like her -- face like water-lily, white, white, and soft, with sun shining through; and young, young; not ole like her; child piccaniny, modder piccaniny; go down in grave like angel, and leave Sahib alone with piccaniny, and with Dia."

"But who was she?" asked Lady Harriette impatiently. The Indian woman folded her arms across her breast, raised her tall figure to its extremest height, and then rivetting her eyes upon her questioner, she said almost with an air of scorn -- 

"England good, but Dia hold him in her hand. India great; Dia live long, and not see him all. Bibby Begum proud, but India Begum prouder. She was India Begum."

"All this appears to me terribly absurd. Sir Hercules;" said his wife; "it is to be hoped that when the papers arrive we shall obtain something like a rational knowledge of the truth."

"Are you aware whether your late master left a will; and, if so, who is in possession of it?" asked the baronet of the ayah.

The Indian woman only replied; "Much letter -- Ashton Sahib, Braveby Sahib, Burton Sahib."

"Very well, I will detain you no longer from your charge. We shall hope to see her ere long."

The ayah made her salaam, and withdrew.

"It is evident;" said Sir Hercules; "that you are right, my dear Lady Harriette; and that we shall obtain no further information until the arrival of the luggage. This is annoying enough, but we have no alternative save patience. I should have been glad to know at once my poor brother's wishes with regard to his child; but as we cannot do so, we must lighten the few hours of suspense by making better acquaintance with Ella."

"If, as I am inclined to suppose;" observed his wife; "Mr. Horace Ashton, after a long and prosperous residence in the East, should have formed very magnificent projects for his daughter, we shall probably be called upon to make a large increase in our establishment; and, having three children of our own to provide for, this is a very serious consideration, without mentioning that it will be productive of much trouble to myself."

"I hope not, my dear;" said the baronet; "At all events it is only a trouble in perspective, as Ella cannot for many years require more attendance than that of her faithful Diana, and our own people. Her Indian habits will soon wear off in this country."

"I trust that it may prove so;" tartly replied Lady Harriette; "In any case, you will, without doubt, have everything in your own hands."

"I wish the ayah had brought the letters with her;" remarked Sir Hercules, evading the observation of his wife.

At that instant the rattling of a hack-chaise rapidly approaching the main entrance of the mansion, made itself harshly audible: and Lady Harriette sprang from her chair exclaiming; "Why, surely that can never be Horry arrived already!"

She was wrong, however. It was Horry, who was seen from the window of the breakfast-room to jump from the vehicle, followed, although somewhat less energetically, by his friend: and in another instant he was folded in his mother's arms.

"Why, this is indeed an agreeable surprise, my dear boy;" cried Sir Hercules, while awaiting his own turn to press his idolised son to his bosom; "We did not expect you for three days to come."

"Never mind, my dear father;" was the joyous rejoinder, as the lad, releasing himself from the clasp of Lady Harriette, received and returned the embrace of the baronet. "The fatted calf can be killed as comfortably after my return home as while you were only looking forward to it: and, now, let me make known to you my friend, Frank Hatherston, Do you feel inclined to advise his return to his uncle?"

"Not particularly, I must confess," smiled Lady Harriette, as she turned to welcome the singularly noble-looking young man, who thus introduced advanced a few paces into the apartment; "I should, certainly, not have done so in any case, and assuredly not in his."

A glorious specimen of English youth he was, in truth. Tall and slight, but evidently of considerable muscular strength and elasticity; graceful, self-possessed, and prepossessing in person and manner. His large, deep, long-cut dark eyes, and waving masses of coal-black hair, gave a singular and softening charm to his rather strongly-marked features, while his smile was full of gentleness and feeling, and displayed teeth of the most dazzling whiteness. The contrast afforded by his friend Horace was striking; for there the Saxon blood of the Ashtons asserted itself in the bright blue eye, the somewhat prominent nose, and the locks of golden chesnut which had once distinguished Sir Hercules; and which the worthy old gentleman considered the true type of manly beauty. Both were fine youths, full of life and vivacity: and the baronet at once decided that so agreeable an addition to the family circle had not been made for many years.

While the two young men satisfied the cravings of a hunger sharpened by several hours of travel, Lady Harriette communicated to her son the arrival of his newly-found cousin, by which he was equally astonished and amused.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed, "this is the best fun that I have heard for months! What a menagerie! I quite long to be introduced to this Indian importation. But what do the girls say to the little blackamoor?"

"Nay, nay, Horace;" expostulated his smiling mother; "The child is not black."

"I see;" said the incorrigible boy; "only brown, or whitey-brown; not a black rose, but a tawny dahlia! Well, we shall see if she will bleach under an English sky. By the bye, how does she like us?"

"It is as yet difficult to say, as she only arrived yesterday: and she is very shy and frightened."

"Oh, we'll soon cure her of that nonsense;" said the wild lad; "Hatherston and I will act as her gentlemen ushers, and introduce her into polite society, if the girls cannot succeed in taming her. And, by the way, talking of the girls, does not Minerva intend to let us see them to-day?"

"They are still in the school-room, and ignorant of your arrival;" said Lady Harriette, "But their studies are almost over for to-night, and then, you may rely on it, they will lose no time in bidding you welcome."

"And the young begum? -- "

"Oh, you shall see her also, if she can be prevailed upon to leave her apartment; but I fear that she is a very wilful young lady, who has already learnt to obey no authority save that of her own pleasure."

"The deuce!" exclaimed Horace. "Well, I am glad to find that she has a little pluck, for I always fancied that these Oriental productions were but poor, puny, languid creatures; but I suppose the Ashton blood, as the governor calls it, has quickened her pulses. So look out for a lark, Hatherston."

"Poor child! I'm afraid that you are not likely to tranquillise her nerves," replied his friend; "And it would really be a pity to torment her before she has had time to understand the somewhat rough demonstrations of your affection."

"Affection, Mr. Hatherston!" echoed Lady Harriette: "I am sure that when once you have seen Miss Ella Ashton, you will be one of the last persons in the world to anticipate that such a feeling as affection can ever exist in the bosom of my son towards the daughter of his father's brother."

Some more evil seed was sown.

CHAPTER VI.

THE FLIGHT.

"Upon my word, girls!" exclaimed Master Horace, when he had hugged and kissed his sisters with a vehemence which disordered their curls, and made their cheeks glow like hedge-roses, while the sunshine warms their petals: "You are getting on famously! If you continue to improve, as you have done this last half, I really think I shall have no occasion to be ashamed of you. What say you, Hatherston?"

"Not having before been fortunate enough to make the acquaintance of these young ladies, Ashton, I am, of course, unable to institute any comparison between the present and the past;" replied his friend; "but I should scarcely imagine that you could ever have incurred the risk at which you hint."

The girls blushed still more deeply as they each stole a glance at their young champion.

"Come, come;" said Sir Hercules, laughing merrily; "This won't do at all, Horry. I must not have my pets put out of countenance by your Eton impudence. But why has not some one been sent to summon your cousin?"

"Aye, why indeed?"asked his son.

"Florence, ring the bell," said Lady Harriette, glancing up from her embroidery frame.

How pleasant the pretty morning room looked at that moment, flooded with sunshine, and gay with flowers: while in the midst stood the graceful group beaming with youth and beauty, upon which the clear eye of the happy baronet rested with a proud complacency. It was a lovely picture, appropriately displayed in a framework of elegance and comfort, to which it lent the culminating charm.

And it was into this sunny apartment, and among its gay and graceful tenants, that the little Indian was led by her ayah, trembling, shrinking, and almost weeping with terror; for during a disturbed and restless night she had been haunted by the cold, stem eye, and haughty tones, of the stately Lady Harriette; and, wholly unaccustomed to be approached save with deference and affection, she felt as though a granite mountain had fallen upon her little sensitive heart, and crushed it. Her head was bowed upon her breast, her long thin fingers clutched nervously at the dress of her nurse, and her lips quivered almost convulsively.

"Why, what have we here?" exclaimed Horace, as the child suddenly stopped upon the threshold. "By Jove! this is rich; I never saw anything like it before. Is this a specimen of the Ashton blood, Sir?"

"That, Horace;" said the baronet earnestly; "is the child of my poor brother; and I bespeak for her your best and kindest offices and affection."

"Leave the room, Diana," said Lady Harriette; "Miss Ella Ashton will make acquaintance with these young people much sooner if you are not present to encourage her in her very disagreeable shyness."

The ayah threw back at the speaker a look as haughty and repellent as her own; and then, instead of retiring by the door at which she had entered, she crossed the room, and disappeared in the conservatory which opened upon it on its southern side. Her movements had been so sudden and impetuous, that her young charge had no time to impede her departure, and she now stood alone, looking helplessly in the direction where the woman had vanished; and at this moment Sir Hercules was summoned to the library, where he had appointed to meet his steward.

As he reached the spot where the child stood, he bent down and kissed her throbbing brow, saying as he did so: "Why should you be so terrified, my darling? Do you not see that your cousins all want to love you and make you happy? There now, give your hand to Matilda, and she will tell you pretty stories to amuse you, and when I come back you shall talk to me of India and papa."

"Papa -- " murmured the child, bursting into tears; but the baronet, having uttered his words of encouragement, had already passed on and left the room.

"Come, don't cry, little Ella;" said Horace, approaching her, and lifting her in his arms; "we are very funny folks, as you will find when you know us better. Never mind our colour; you have only to imagine that we have been skinned, and are waiting for the outside coat of paint that will make us all right presently. Do you know, I have taken quite a fancy to you, and I think that you and I couldn't do better than set up in business together. I'll be bound that I could grab an old barrel-organ in the post-town; and as I have a natural ear for music, I could grind away famously; while you will make a capital monkey, with your white teeth and long arms, and we shall earn our fortune before we leave the county."

"Horace! -- Horace!" expostulated Frank Hatherston.

But before Horace could reply, there was a cry which echoed through the room like the shriek of a wild animal; a sudden rush of some heavy body; and the child was forcibly snatched from the arms of young Ashton with a violence which caused him to stagger for an instant as though he had received a heavy blow.

The ayah stood in the centre of the floor grasping her nursling; lightnings flashed from her eyes, her nostrils were dilated, and her chest heaved; a deep anathema in her native tongue broke upon the stillness, and then, like a hunted panther, she sprang back into the conservatory with her precious burthen, and was lost to sight.

"Upon my honour!" exclaimed the hope of the house, while his terrified sisters clung to their mother's side; "a pretty tiger-cat you have added to our family possessions, good people; but trust me for taming this she-Beelzebub and her imp too," And so saying, he rushed in pursuit of the fugitives.

"Horace! Horace!" cried Lady Harriette; "your father will never forgive you if you alarm or distress his niece."

Horace was, however, already far beyond the reach of her voice, having dashed headlong through the conservatory and into the park.

"Believe me, when I gay that your Ladyship has not the slightest cause for any apprehension of the kind;" exclaimed young Hatherston; "Ashton is wild with spirits, but would not wilfully give pain to any creature in existence; and however unpromising such a prophecy may appear at the present moment, I prognosticate that your little guest will come to an understanding with her boisterous boy-cousin long before she feels at ease with these young ladies."

Lady Harriette shook her head doubtingly.

Ten minutes afterwards Horace re-entered the room, his cheeks glowing, and his fair curls disordered; he had not, as he stated, succeeded in starting the game; an assurance which was particularly welcome to his mother, who earnestly entreated that he would abstain from all such experiments as those at which he had hinted, and which could not fail to wound Sir Hercules deeply. A promise to this effect was easily obtained from the thoughtless but kind-hearted boy; and he was soon seated at a table drawing caricatures for Matilda, while his less volatile friend undertook to make a sketch for Florence of a noble dump of timber which was visible from the window of the apartment.

"Still I should like to know;" said the lad, looking up from the paper before which Matilda was joyfully clapping her hands, as group after group of fantastic and grotesque figures overspread its surface; "where the queen of the silver bow had earthed herself and her attendant star; whether they had jumped into a watering-pot, or perched themselves on one of the topmost leaves of the India-rubber plant. It is really very mysterious!"

"Nonsense, Horry;" said Lady Harriette; "they will reappear shortly, and then it will be of very little consequence where they took refuge from your boisterous folly."

"But pray tell me, mother mine;" resumed her son; "is this dark-eyed and long-limbed young lady a nabobess? Has she lacs of rupees, and rivers of diamonds? I am really quite curious about her, as, should she turn out to be a great heiress, I suppose that we shall be sporting a palanquin with four black bearers; or perhaps establishing a Leicestershire Elephant and Castle at the old sign of the Ashton Court."

"My dear boy;" replied Lady Harriette sententiously; "you know quite as much of Miss Ella Ashton's affairs at the present moment as we ourselves do. There are, however, papers on the way which the ayah ought never to have lost sight of, and by which we shall of course be put into possession of every particular. It cannot meanwhile, at least so I should suppose, be doubtful for one moment, that in placing his child under the protection of your father, and claiming for her a place at his hearth, Mr. Horace Ashton would be careful that she should not become a burthen upon Sir Hercules, who has already a family of his own."

"One thing, at least, is certain;" said the lad; "that if she is to be a burthen, poor little dun-coloured soul, she will be a very small one."

Lady Harriette's brow contracted, but she made no reply. The enquiries of Horace had once more plunged her into the same wide sea of speculation, hope, and inference, on which she had floated during the preceding night; nor was it until the luncheon-bell rang that she again roused herself from her reverie.

A servant was sent to summon Miss Ella Ashton, and it was with considerable vexation Lady Harriette ascertained that neither the young lady herself, nor her attendant were in their apartments, and that they had not been seen by any of the household since they entered the morning-room immediately after breakfast.

"This is the consequence of your ill-judged frolic, Horace;" said his mother, with as much severity in her tone as she could assume towards her favorite child; "but I hear your father's step; not a word to him of this silly affair; I will have the foolish woman sought for as soon as we leave the table."

"So, so;" said the well-pleased Sir Hercules, as he made his way across the floor; "I declare that you ought to feel very much flattered, young gentlemen, by the presence of my daughters at luncheon; it is an indulgence which my Lady Harriette rarely accords to me. But where is little Ella? Where is my Eastern fairy?"

"Somewhere in the park, I apprehend, Sir Hercules;" replied his wife; "at least Diana carried your niece off through the conservatory shortly after you left the room this morning, and she has not since made her appearance."

"Poor woman! Poor woman!" said the baronet, "she is jealous of her nursling. I have often heard that those native ayahs are the most faithful and affectionate creatures in the world. You had better order some luncheon in Ella's own room, my love; we must not startle her by any abruptness until she knows us better and can understand our motive."

The self-convicted Horace, who would, had he not feared the displeasure of his mother, have instantly confessed his delinquency, and asked permission to resume his search at once, could only fasten his eyes upon his plate, while the blood mounted to his forehead. He had a painful conviction that Lady Harriette had been guilty of the meanness of equivocation in order to screen his own fault; and thus a double sensation of culpability pressed upon him, and kept him silent.

"And now, my boys, what are you going to do with yourselves until dinner-time?" enquired Sir Hercules; "you must not mope in the house all day at your age. There are horses for you in the stable; or, if you prefer a little sport, there are guns, if not dogs. It will do my heart good to hear the popping of the fowling-pieces; and though I fear that you will find little or nothing in the preserves, the lake will keep you busy enough."

And as he spoke, a half-suppressed sigh rose to the lips of the old country gentleman; a sigh of humiliation that even a stripling from Eton should be enabled to jest upon the forsaken condition of the Ashton-Court woods.

What might have been the decision of the two young friends we are unable to determine, as the Baronet had scarcely ceased speaking when the butler announced the arrival of Miss Ella Ashton's luggage; and in an instant one common feeling of interest and curiosity had absorbed the whole party.

And meanwhile, where was Miss Ella Ashton?

CHAPTER VII.

THE AYAH.

Rapid as a lightning-flash, this question glanced through the brain of Lady Harriette. Where was the child? And, moreover, where was the ayah, without whom it would be impossible to obtain the information for which she literally hungered, even although that information was already beneath her roof? In an instant she was in the hall, and half-a-dozen servants were dispatched in as many directions to search park, grounds, and garden for the runaways.

Meanwhile the female domestics were marvelling at the amount of Miss Ella Ashton's luggage; and examining each package as intently and as curiously as though they expected to see the Indian shawls and carved ivory, (with which they doubted not that they were all filled,) through the wood and leather of the trunks and cases; and still the owner of this van-load of property did not reappear.

Lady Harriette became seriously alarmed; while Sir Hercules, although ignorant of the greater cause for fear which made his wife's heart beat almost audibly, became himself excited and uncomfortable at the protracted absence of his niece and her attendant. As hour by hour went by, a vague terror grew upon him that the ayah had ventured beyond the boundaries of the park, and lost herself in the cross-roads by which the neighbouring country was intersected. Alone, a stranger in a strange land, speaking a strange language, and, it might even be, entirely without resources, what might not be the fate of the helpless wanderers? Physically unable to make any personal exertion, poor Sir Hercules at length became wretched. It is needless to say that Horace and his friend Hatherston had been foremost in the search, and they were still absent; while Lady Harriette, overcome with terror, had no word of consolation to offer to her suffering husband.

Suddenly a new horror grew upon her. The lake! Who could calculate to what extremity the excited and ill-governed passions of a semi-barbarian might lead her? The lip of Lady Harriette quivered, as, escaping from the presence of the Baronet, she gave orders that a strict search should be made all round its banks. Vain, however, was this new investigation, which occupied a great amount of time. Not a trace of the lost ones could be discovered in the vicinity of the extensive sheet of water, and the consternation of the searchers and the watchers alike was terrible.

The two young men, in their innumerable comings and goings, had walked over miles of ground, and were becoming utterly exhausted. Horace was as pale as death, and could scarcely sustain himself, while even the more sturdy Hatherston began reluctantly to yield to his fatigue.

"Come, Ashton, my poor fellow;" he said at length; "we are still at least four miles from your house, and the twilight is gathering rapidly; we had better make the best of our way home, and renew our search by daylight in the morning. We shall have no chance in the darkness."

"No, Hatherston;" said his companion gloomily; "Never will I stand under my father's roof again until his niece is restored to him -- that niece who, should she fall a victim to my mad folly, T shall have murdered. Go to Ashton Court, Frank: it will be a comfort to them in their distress to see you return. You have no sin upon your head in this unhappy business; nothing to conceal; nothing with which to reproach yourself: but it is far different with me. I cannot, and I will not, return without the poor, innocent child whom I so wantonly outraged."

"Why, this is madness, Horace;" expostulated his friend; "That you acted recklessly and even unkindly to the little girl, I am ready to admit; but, after all, you have no right to exaggerate a boyish prank into a crime. Come, my dear fellow, follow my advice, and accompany me home; for rest assured, that should I return without you, Sir Hercules and Lady Harriette would be more wretched than ever. Moreover, I tell you, once for all, that I will not leave you till I see you safely housed."

"You torture me, Hatherston -- I would rather be alone; and you forget that I know every inch of the ground."

"It is useless to argue the point;" said his companion resolutely; "we set forth together, and together we will return."

At this period of their conversation the two friends were skirting a small but dense wood on the very confines of the park, when suddenly Horace paused.

"Hark!" he said, in a subdued voice; "What noise is that?"

"It seems like the tapping of a woodpecker," whispered Frank in reply.

"It is no woodpecker; the birds are at roost; and listen -- the blows, for blows they are, fall heavier and yet with a more vibrating sound than the bill of a bird. Tread softly, Hatherston. I can trace the noise now; it comes from an old roothouse, where I have often rested myself after a long walk. There -- be careful," pursued Horace, in a voice which trembled with emotion; "I feel a new life within me. It must be them."

"Do not be too sanguine;" said his less impulsive companion; "you have no rational ground for such a supposition; for it is folly to suppose that a woman who has so skilfully contrived to secrete herself during so many hours, would be incautious enough to betray her hiding-place by a noise, which must originate in mere wantonness."

"Let us ascertain the fact, at least:" said poor Horace somewhat less confidently; and once more they moved cautiously forward, guided by the noise, which became more audible every instant.

At length they stood before the root-house. The door was closed, but it was flung back in an instant by the impetuous boy; who the next moment was at the feet of the ayah, clinging to her with a force from which she could not disengage herself. Sorely did the enraged woman struggle to escape the clasp, but it was in vain; and ere long, Hatherston, dreading lest the strength of his friend should suddenly fail, and that the fury of the ayah should lead her to some act of violence, also threw his arms about her, while he implored her to calm herself, and to listen to the entreaties which Horace was hysterically pouring forth.

The ayah ceased to resist immediately she became convinced that all resistance was hopeless for the moment; but her dark eyes flashed like meteors in the dim light, and her whole frame trembled with rage and hatred.

"Diana;" faltered the exhausted boy, as he meekly pressed his lips to the sable hand which she vainly endeavoured to wrench from him; "Diana, I do beseech you to forgive me. If you love your master's orphan, my father's niece, only promise to forgive me. It was cruel sport, Diana, but it was only meant in sport; Ella is my cousin; from this day she shall be dear to me as a sister. Believe me, and trust in me, Diana; never shall Ella want a brother's affection or a brother's care while I have a heart or an arm to love and to protect her."

"Dia hates you, young Ashton sahib;" growled the uncompromising Indian woman; "You strong arm, but bad heart "

Horace relaxed his hold upon her waist, and buried his face in his hands, utterly crushed and exhausted.

At that moment a low, rustling sound made itself audible at the further extremity of the hut; and little Ella walked forward, and laid her hand softly on the shoulder of her penitent cousin.

"Dia forgives you;" she said simply; "Ella forgives you. Papa forgives you." And there she drew back, and threw herself into the arms of her nurse.

"An angel's errand told in an angel's voice;" murmured young Hatherston, reverently removing his hat; "Diana, my good woman, you will not surely now refuse to offer your hand to my poor suffering friend. Can you doubt how bitterly he has atoned his folly? Have you forgotten the excellent old man at home, whose gray head is bowed in agony and terror lest his brother's child should have come to harm? Have you not been yourself cruel and selfish in your revenge? Were you not about to sacrifice your nursling to your own feelings? A few hours more, and how can you say that terror, exposure, and hunger would not have done their work upon her frail and delicate frame?"

The ayah shuddered, but she did not stir a limb.

"And we will suppose that she even endured all this for a time," pursued the young man earnestly; "but how could you believe it would end? Where could you take her when you had deprived her of her natural home?"

The woman writhed for an instant, but at length she spoke:

"To Liverpool, Sahib."

"I understand you. You would have endeavoured to return with her to your own country. This would, however, have been impossible, and you must never dream of such an attempt again. Where could you have found means to carry out your project? How, indeed, I should rather ask you, could you even have contrived to exist without either friends or money?"

For all reply the woman snatched at the hand of the speaker, forced it open, and laid upon the palm a heavy mass of metal; and, while he stood uncertain of her meaning, and bewildered by the impetuosity of her action, she stretched forth her arms, and pointed alternately to her wrists and ancles. Two mysteries were solved at once: the nature of her resources, and the origin of the singular sound by which the place of her retreat had been betrayed.

The young man was deeply moved. "I see, I comprehend it all," he said, almost reverentially; "You have deprived yourself of your cherished ornaments to secure the comfort of your charge. From my heart I honour you, Diana! But you will not leave so noble a work half accomplished. You can sacrifice your interest; can you not also sacrifice your revenge? Look at that poor young man. For weary hours he has sought to find you, with a bleeding heart and a wounded spirit. He is still a boy in years, but he has suffered a manhood of agony during the day which has been so cruel to us all. Remember, also, that the feeble child you love so well has fasted for hours; that you, that Horace, and that I myself, are exhausted with hunger, anxiety, and fatigue. We all need the comforts, the affection of home, Diana. Give your hand to my friend in peace; and he will remain here to watch over the safety of his cousin, while I hasten to procure a carriage to convey you all to Ashton Court. Look at your nursling. She is utterly worn out. And who shall dare to say what may be to her the consequences of a longer exposure to the night-air, and the want of proper nourishment?"

The ayah raised the head of little Ella from her breast, but it was already too dark for her to distinguish her features. The languid weight which fell back again upon her shoulder sufficed, however, to convince her that her precious charge could endure no further suffering; and she had no sooner arrived at this conviction, than, instead of stretching out her hand to the unhappy Horace, she wound her arms about him, and drew him towards her, until she held both the cousins in the same close embrace.

"That is well, Diana;" said Frank Hatherston. "We are now richly repaid for all our exertions. Another hour, and we shall be once more a happy family under the roof of Sir Hercules. Shelter Ella well from the cold wind. Look you, Horace has already flung his own coat about her. This is all as it should be. And now, good-bye for the present. Close the door after me, and huddle together to keep yourselves warm until the arrival of the carriage. I shall waste no time on the way, and shall feel no more fatigue as I remember that I shall be a most welcome messenger."

As he spoke, Hatherston wrung the hand of the silent ayah, pressed his lips softly to the brow of the child, and whispered a few words of comfort and encouragement to Horace. Another moment, and he had disappeared along his woodland path.

The young man's spirit was high and brave; and, wearied and footsore as he was, he toiled onward, guided by the lights from the windows of the mansion-house, and the shouts of the numerous servants, who were by this time seeking not merely the orphan niece of their master, but also his only son, and that son's chosen friend.

And the toilworn pilgrim reached his goal at last. Faintly and falteringly, he made his way to the apartment in which Sir Hercules and his wife sat in agonising suspense, refusing to be comforted.

"Found! Found!" he shouted, as he stood upon the threshold. But it was the last effort of his generous devotion. He was answered by a shriek of thankfulness: and, as Lady Harriette fell back swooning upon her cushions, he sank upon a seat, even more unconscious than his hostess.

He soon rallied, however, and told his tale. Immediate orders were given for the speedy conveyance of the absent ones to their home. Warm blankets, reviving cordials, and nourishing food, were rapidly packed into the carriage; and the grateful baronet forced his young guest to occupy the warmest seat at his hearth, and again and again overwhelmed him with expressions of gratitude, as heartfelt as they were profuse. But great was the consternation of the little party, when, on approaching in her turn to grasp the hand of her young guest. Lady Harriette perceived that there were traces of blood upon his clothes.

"My boy! my boy!" exclaimed the agonised mother; "tell me at once if any thing has happened to my precious boy. What is the meaning of this blood? Look here, and here!"

"I solemnly assure you, madam, that your son is safe; and suffering only from anxiety and fatigue. I am as much at a loss as yourself to understand the meaning of these stains;" said Prank.

"And my poor little niece -- " faltered the baronet.

"Do not agitate yourself, Sir Hercules. No harm has happened to any of the party. In a short time we shall probably be able to account, in a very simple manner, for what is at present as much a mystery to me as to yourself."

"You would not deceive us, Hatherston?"

"On my soul, I would not!"

Despite this declaration, the mother still sat with blanched cheeks and quivering lips; the little girls wept silently in a corner, with their arms clasped about each other; and the baronet, only half reassured, remained gazing into the fire, as though he dreaded to meet the eyes of those about him.

Meanwhile, the comfortable and rapid equipage neared, and erelong reached, the dreary little hut which had afforded a temporary refuge to so much passion, hatred, penitence, and remorse.

When the grey-haired butler, who was almost as much agitated as his master, and who loved that master's son as warmly as though he had been his own, entered the roothouse, he found its three occupants seated upon the ground. Ella was in the lap of her nurse, but she had one arm about the neck of her cousin. Overpowered by fatigue and want, both the younger wanderers had fallen into a heavy sleep. But the Indian woman was broad awake, and watching over her charge with as vigilant a zeal as ever.

A hasty repast was snatched in the hut by the light of the carriage lamps; and then, carefully guarded from the cold, the party set forth for Ashton Court.

As the sound of wheels was heard, every individual beneath the roof of Sir Hercules hastened to the hall to welcome the wanderers; and while Lady Harriette embraced her son, tearless, but nearly convulsed by the heavy sobs which she could not suppress, the baronet had lifted Ella from the arms of her nurse, and was pressing her, with a mental thanksgiving, to his warm and loving heart. He had not then betrayed his trust. The child was still safe; he had not forfeited his claim to the confidence which his dead brother had reposed in him.

At that instant, the attitude and expression of the Indian woman were sublime. The glare of defiance had faded from her eyes. Nature had done its work. She read on the quivering features of good Sir Hercules the labourings of his spirit; and she felt that henceforward her nursling would have a second father. She even glanced in the direction of Lady Harriette without one symptom of hatred or avoidance, for the young bright face of Horace was hidden upon her bosom; and there is a holiness which speaks to every heart in the spectacle of a mother's love.

The little girls had placed themselves beside their brother, where they impatiently awaited the embrace which was delayed by the close and almost convulsive grasp in which Lady Harriette held him: and Hatherston profited by the general emotion to cast a scrutinizing glance over the several individuals who had been his companions in the root-house; in order, if possible, to discover the origin of the blood which had so naturally excited the alarm of his host and hostess.

The mystery was soon read. In attempting to detach her heavy gold ornaments with a coarse tool which had been forgotten by some workman, and which she had chanced to find among the litter that encumbered the little building, Diana had wounded herself severely about the wrists and ancles; and it was by the blood which flowed from these self-inflicted wounds that, as he immediately discovered, all her three companions had been covered.

Young as he was, Frank Hatherston possessed a nature capable of appreciating the noble and unselfish devotion of the ayah. To deliver her nursling from what she had evidently considered as the tyranny and insult of her newly-found relatives, she had spurned at the weakness of physical suffering, and hewn into her very flesh to secure the means of effecting her liberation; and there she still stood in the midst of that luxurious room, of those family endearments, smarting with pain, and utterly unheeded.

"That is the stuff" of which martyrs, are made!" murmured the young man to himself, as he made his way towards her, and with respect and admiration unmistakeably beaming in his fine eyes, pointed to her swollen and discoloured limbs, ere he placed his hand softly upon her's.

The woman smiled a sickly smile, and shook her head deprecatingly; "'Tis noting, noting, sahib;" she said softly; "black 'oman's blood; more on Dia's heart."

"Yes; I can understand that you wept tears of blood in your great agony, Diana;" he replied in the same tone, "but you will shed no more for your young charge."

"You no tell -- no say word, sahib -- " earnestly urged the Indian.

"I will not deceive you;" said Hatherston; "I shall certainly inform Sir Hercules and Lady Harriette of all that has occurred. I must do so, Diana; those fearful hurts should be looked to, and that without loss of time."

It would be idle to describe the effect produced upon the hearers when the tale was told. In an instant the ayah became the care and anxiety of the whole establishment; nor did the once more happy family retire to rest until the Indian woman had been tended with a care and tenderness to which, since the death of the mistress whom she still mourned, she had been a stranger.

CHAPTER VIII.

DAY-DREAMS.

The excitement of the afternoon had totally driven from the mind of Lady Harriette the still undivulged mystery of her niece's position; and her first surmise upon the subject was so coldly met by her husband after they had retired for the night, that she wisely abstained from dwelling upon it. Sir Hercules was thoroughly prostrated by the trial through which he had passed; and certain indications of a return of the painful scourge to which he was a martyr did not tend to rally his scattered energies.

With her ladyship it was otherwise; the danger and suspense being over, she began to scorn herself, for having conceived the idea that any evil could have happened to her son, and the heir of the Ashtons; and her mind was consequently free to return to its old field of speculation. Should the orphan girl really prove to be as wealthy as she hoped; and that as she grew into girlhood she became sufficiently presentable to remove all repugnance on the part of her handsome cousin, no family in the county would command a better position than themselves; as, superadded to the ingots of the heiress, there was a prospect -- somewhat vague and misty it is true, but the perspectives of dreamland are seldom very clearly defined -- upon which she occasionally dwelt with more complacency than, under the peculiar circumstances, she cared to acknowledge even to herself. In dafault of heirs male, the earldom of the Disboroughs, with the royal sanction, descended in the female line; and the family estates, without even that reservation. Now my Lord Disborough had lived both fast and hard ever since he attained to manhood, and his particular friends were not slow to express their wonder that he had "carried on the war" so long; while his only son Lord Compton was serving with his regiment in the West Indies; and the West Indies are not proverbial for being conducive to longevity. Moreover, human life is so precarious -- we all of us occasionally make the remark; not as affecting ourselves, but as matter of consolation to our friends and relatives when they are mourning the loss of one dear to them; -- that should anything unfortunate occur to either father or son in the case of the Disboroughs, Lady Harriette, as the eldest daughter of the house, would become the representative of the family, and the coronet in due course encircle the golden curls of her idolized Horace. Let us do justice to her mother's heart, however; haughty as she was, Lady Harriette had less ambition for herself than for her boy; and she keenly felt how acceptably the gold of the orphan Ella would negative the poverty of her lordly house. With these waking dreams floating over her pillow she at length fell asleep; the hours wore on; and a new day broke over Ashton Court.

The surgeon's report of the ayah was favourable; and although her little charge could not be induced to quit her side, a new spirit had evidently been awakened within her; the helplessness of her attendant had aroused her energies, and she neither trembled nor quailed when she was approached by any of the family. The two youths, thoroughly recovered from their fatigue, were well prepared to do justice to the morning meal, although Horace was unusually grave and taciturn. Lady Harriette, having paid a passing visit to the school-room, where she found Madame Despreaux and her pupils already engaged in their studies, was all smiles and urbanity, awaiting with confidence the realization of her overnight's visions; and all would once more have been sunshine in that pleasant room, had not the working features of good Sir Hercules betrayed the physical pangs by which he was tortured.

Not even his spasms of gout could, however, restrain his impatience to examine the important papers of which the Indian woman had announced the existence; and he had accordingly no sooner pushed away from him his almost untasted breakfast, than he suggested to his wife the expediency of ascertaining from the ayah the identity of the case which contained them; and of having it conveyed to her apartment, in order that she might enable him to examine them without further delay.

"Perhaps, my love;" he added; "you will be kind enough to receive them from her yourself, in order that they may not pass through the hands of a servant. When other interests than our own are intrusted to us we cannot take too many precautions."

Never did the request of a husband meet with a more ready and graceful compliance. Lady Harriette rose from her seat with the buoyant alacrity of a girl of sixteen, smiled her acquiescence without uttering a word, and was gone.

"Sincerely do I trust;" said the baronet, writhing upon his cushions, and grasping the suffering leg with both hands; "not only for her own sake, Horace, but also for your mother's, that our poor little girl may inherit a good property, as I fear that should it prove otherwise my lady will be seriously disappointed. She has not taken to the child herself, and it would be pleasant for all parties, should she be independent of her relatives and family connexions."

"I suppose it would, sir;" was the listless reply; "but the fact seems to me of very small importance. The poor little thing will be so minute an item in the sum total of your establishment."

"You do not understand me, my dear boy;" retorted Sir Hercules somewhat nervously; "I am merely alluding to the child's own feelings."

"I should apprehend that she is as yet too young to give a thought to her worldly circumstances, Sir Hercules;" said Hatherston; "and I am quite sure that, be they what they may, she will not long have lived in the bosom of your family before she will have forgotten them altogether."

The baronet acknowledged the remark by a courteous bow, and even made an attempt at a smile; but, by some strange chance, a sigh rose to his lips at the same moment, and the intended smile degenerated into a grimace which the young man did not fail to attribute to a fresh twinge of gout.

A late blackbird, the guest of many seasons, who had become almost tame from long impunity, was warbling out his song from the topmost bough of an evergreen near the window, and it is possible that the little party in the breakfast-room remained silently listening to his wild melody; it is at least certain that not another word was spoken by any of them until the lady of the mansion re-entered the apartment with a packet of papers in her hand.

"I have, as you see, faithfully done your bidding. Sir Hercules;" she said, as she placed them before him; "and I assure you that it was no slight undertaking, for they were as carefully concealed as the golden apple of the enchanted princess in the Persian story. There were no less than six shawls folded about them, and I trust that they will prove worthy of so costly an envelope."

"Did the poor woman evince any reluctance to their being examined in her absence?" inquired the baronet, evading all response to the comment of his wife.

"Not the smallest;" was the ready reply; "nor did she even for a moment endeavour to induce little Ella to be present, as I suggested; and as the child was evidently unwilling to leave her nurse, I did not think it necessary to compel her to do so."

"Thank you, my dear Lady Harriette;" said Sir Hercules, as he proceeded to break the seal of the packet which was immediately under his hand; "in any and every case, she is better away."

It is scarcely necessary to say that, on the return of his hostess to the apartment, Frank Hatherston had disappeared.

Lady Harriette was in a tumult of agitation; the baronet grave and anxious; and even Horace, unimportant, as with the natural and generous carelessness of youth he considered the question of money, was still curious and excited.

This packet proved to be that of Captain Burton, in which the worthy seaman had enclosed a mass of receipts and other documents, simply tending to prove that the amount with which he had been entrusted by the firm of Trueman and Braveby of Calcutta, for the use of Miss Ella Ashton, had been conscientiously and prudently expended. The letter by which these were accompanied was brief and business-like; but it nevertheless contained one passage which for an instant drove the life-blood of Lady Harriette back upon her heart.

Thus it ran: -- 

"In conclusion, I am sorry to be obliged to inform you that the inquiries which I was instructed by the firm aforesaid to make at the Bank of England, were met by the reply that no monies were, or had been, during the last twenty years deposited there to the account of Mr. Horace Ashton."

"It is evident;" remarked the baronet after a pause; "from the extreme vagueness of this information, that we have commenced our investigation unfortunately; we must turn to our other correspondents for an explanation of Captain Burton's meaning."

"It is equally evident, however;" said Lady Harriette uneasily; "that your brother possessed no funded property in England."

"Such is, undoubtedly, the inference so far;" conceded her husband; "but it may, nevertheless, be an erroneous one; or, as is extremely probable, poor Horace may not have cared to send his money out of the country. Ha!" he pursued, as his eye rested upon the signature of the letter which he had torn open while speaking, and sank back heavily in his chair; "we were indeed estranged, when even his very writing had become unfamiliar to me."

"Perhaps, Sir Hercules;" said his wife; "if I am correct in supposing that the letter in your hand is from your brother, I had better read it aloud to you?"

"Do, my love, do;" gasped the conscience-stricken invalid.

There was a slight flutter in the voice of Lady Harriette as she commenced her task, but it soon disappeared, and the tones were firm and sonorous in which she completed it; while her husband listened to the last with a deep and strong emotion, totally unconnected with the financial prospects of his orphan niece.

"Hercules -- brother -- " thus ran the letter: "I am on my deathbed -- the world is fading rapidly from me, with all its loves and hates, its joys and sorrows. There is neither resentment nor bitterness beyond the grave. We have been long and sadly estranged, but neither has forfeited the respect of the other. I have as firm a trust in your honour and integrity, Hercules, as though we were at this moment seated opposite to each other, mutually laying bare our hearts, as I have heard that brothers sometimes do. I have wished, and I still most devoutly wish, that I could have pressed your hand once more; but we are far asunder, and my days are numbered. Meet me in the same spirit; forgive the impetuous self-reliance of my youth; and remember only that we are the sons of one father, grown to manhood in our turn; and that we have both attained an age when we are compelled to look back upon the past as a long pilgrimage, so near its close that we must, in any case, soon have felt the staff escaping from our grasp. For myself I do not regret that it should be so, for my happiness has long been buried in the grave of my beautiful and idolised wife. I have but one care, one anxiety on earth -- my darling child -- my precious Ella. To your affection I confide her, trustfully -- fearlessly; and with her all my worldly wealth; for where I feel that I can confidently rely for her happiness, it were idle to entertain one apprehension as to the safety of her fortune. Be to her a loving father; I need not ask you to be a faithful guardian. 'One condition only I desire to make: she must be her own mistress at the age of nineteen; her own unrestricted mistress; and she will be unworthy alike to be my child, and to bear the time-honoured name of Ash ton, should she fail in gratitude to those who have cherished her in her desolate youth.

"You accept the trust, Hercules. A solemn conviction has grown upon me, that you will comply with my last request. You are yourself a father, and can appreciate the agony with which I shall leave my only child, my poor orphan Ella, in a foreign land, far from all upon whom she has a claim of kindred or of kindness.

"Let me also entreat of you to cherish for my sake the admirable and devoted woman who will accompany my child to England. Do not regard her colour; there is no stain upon her heart. She laid my angel wife in her coffin; she received the first embrace of my poor little one; she is my last support and comfort on my dying bed.

"And now, I have little more to add. My strength wanes, and I feel that I shall ere long be at rest. Cherish my child -- my poor, poor, fatherless and motherless child. Ask for her the love and tenderness of your wife and children; and may all the affection which you show to her be repaid a thousandfold in blessings upon you and all you love.

"One word more, my brother, and I have done. Had I for one moment doubted you, I would have purchased for my infant girl the services which I now only ask. It will be her holy privilege to repay, in so far as she may, the heavy debt which she will have incurred towards you and yours."

There was silence for several minutes after Lady Harriette had ceased to read; but she was too desirous to terminate the still-existing mystery, to lose herself as Sir Hercules had evidently done, in reminiscences of the past.

"A most beautiful and affecting letter this is, ray love;" she said at length, as she slowly refolded the paper; "and it moreover offers a convincing proof that whatever may have been the career of your lamented brother in his adopted country, he was a true Ashton to the last, for no man of business could have written in this tone; and it is evident that the financial details which will determine the position of his orphan daughter have been left to his lawyer. There can, however, be no doubt, from the manner in which he has alluded to her circumstances, that they are perfectly satisfactory."

"I am quite of your opinion;" said the baronet, rousing himself by a violent effort; "and now let us get over this painful affair at once, for the remaining letter cannot fail to give us all necessary information."

An immense sheet of paper written closely over in a neat clerk-like hand was then drawn from its envelope by Sir Hercules; who, having once more adjusted his spectacles, read aloud in his turn: -- 

"Calcutta, 12th of May, 18 -- .

"Sir,

"It is my melancholy duty to inform you that your brother, our esteemed client Mr. Horace Westland Ashton, expired at his residence in this city at half-past one A.M. on the ninth of the current month, leaving an infant daughter; who, by his express directions, will be embarked the day after tomorrow, with her native attendant, for England, on board the Eastern Star Indiaman, Captain Burton; by whom she will on her arrival be conducted to some respectable hotel in London, until your pleasure may be made known as to her further movements.

"I had not the honour to be in the confidence of your respected brother, whose business was transacted entirely by my partner John Thomas Braveby for many years before I entered the firm. Mr. Braveby is, I regret to say, at the present time at Constantinople, where I have written by this same opportunity to apprise him of the melancholy death of his friend; and to solicit his instructions. All that I have been personally enabled to do meanwhile has been to dispose as advantageously as possible of such of the miscellaneous property of Mr. H. Ashton as was least capable of removal; and which, at the same time, sufficed to meet the necessary expenses attendant upon his demise, and those incurred by the passage of his daughter and her ayah to England. Before doing this, however, I was careful to ascertain the credit of Mr. Ashton in our books, which I found to amount only to two hundred and forty-six pounds, eleven shillings and ninepence in English currency. Impressed, therefore, with the idea that Mr. H. A. had invested his money in the English funds, I requested Captain Burton, on his arrival in London, to ascertain this fact, in order to save time; and to communicate the result of his inquiry to you, which I trust that he will not fail to do.

"A detailed account of the monies expended since the demise of Mr. H. A. shall be duly forwarded, immediately on the receipt of a letter from my partner, from whom I await instructions; and, meanwhile, with most sincere feelings of sympathy in your very severe loss, and with an equally sincere proffer of my services should you further require them in this country,

"I have the honour to be,

"Sir, ("For Braveby and Trueman),

"Richard Trueman."

"Was anything ever so vexatious!" exclaimed Lady Harriette in a tone of undisguised irritation. "So here we are, literally as much in the dark as ever. And the only man who would seem to know anything of Mr. Horace Ashton's affairs in Constantinople of all places in the world, when he ought to have been at Calcutta. What on earth can an Indian banker want at Constantinople! Why, it may be months before this unpleasant suspense is at an end."

"It may, and most probably will;" said the baronet; "But, after all, my love, it is of comparatively little consequence. The most essential point is to know that the poor orphan girl is safe beneath our own roof. For, had she inherited the mines of Golconda, she could do nothing with them at her age."

"Perhaps so;" retorted his wife tartly; "But we should at least be enabled to define her real position in the family!"

"Her real position in the family!" echoed Sir Hercules in surprise: "What position can she occupy in the family save that of my brother's child, and my own adopted daughter?"

"Really, Sir Hercules, you astonish me!" exclaimed his wife; "Do you suppose that the orphan child of an individual, who, at the period of his decease, had the paltry balance of -- what was it? -- two hundred and forty-six pounds, eleven shillings and ninepence, if I remember rightly, at his banker's, and the heiress of thousands, can occupy the same position at Ashton Court? If such has really been your very absurd idea of the fitness of things, the sooner you rid yourself of such a delusion the better. It is positively monstrous! No one can, of course, feel more grieved for the poor child than I shall -- but -- "

"Surely my mother is quite right, sir;" said Horace, eagerly. "With Miss Ella Ashton, the great heiress, we could not have been thoroughly at our ease, for as she grew older she might have misconstrued our motives; but with little Ella the orphan, without a home save our own, we can have no such fear; and shall be at liberty to love and pet her as much as we please."

The baronet, reckless of his inflamed and throbbing foot, leant forward abruptly in his chair, and grasped the hand of his son. He did not utter a word, but his eyes were moist.

CHAPTER IX.

RICH AND POOR.

"Well, madame, what inference do you draw from these extraordinary letters?"

"Really, Miladi;" said the governess; "you ask me a very simple question, and yet one which it is difficult to answer."

"I am not seeking a definite reply;" retorted Lady Harriette pettishly; "I am merely requiring from you, as a sensible woman, your opinion of the probable result of this very ambiguous affair."

"You see;" said the Frenchwoman, reverting to the letter of Mr. Ashton; "that there is positive mention made here of property, in a manner which certainly implies that its amount is far from contemptible; and a man does not seek to deceive upon his deathbed."

"True -- true:" exclaimed her listener with sudden animation.

"And then;" pursued madame; "I should say, since Miladi does me the honour to ask my opinion, that a gentleman engaged in extensive commerce -- for I think that I have understood Mr. Horace Ashton to have been a merchant "

"We know nothing whatever of his pursuits;" hastily interposed Lady Harriette.

"Well, I still think that, in any case, I should feel no surprise on finding that an English capitalist did not intrust his capital to the care of a foreign bank," said the governess.

"But you hear that there are no investments in his name in the Bank of England."

"That is singular, certainly."

"Rather say that it is suspicious;" was the emphatic rejoinder of the lady of the house; "If Mr. Horace Ashton has left money which is neither here nor in Calcutta, where is it?"

"You will probably be informed of that fact by the promised letter from the partner in Constantinople;" replied madame.

"It is, at all events, a most harassing business, and will require great caution on my part;" said Lady Harriette; "for I shall scarcely know how to act during the interval. It is quite useless to discuss the subject with Sir Hercules, who has already worried himself into a fresh fit of gout about this wretched child; and even my son, who should have known better where his own interests and those of his sisters are at stake, is as wrong-headed as his father. Had the brothers never been parted, and Mr. Horace Ash ton, instead of exiling himself for life, remained, as for the honour of the family he was bound to do, in his own country, and among his own connections; the incumbent of three or four rich livings, which Sir Hercules has had the mortification of giving away to comparative strangers, I should be able to understand that we were all bound, in justice to ourselves, to regard his child as our own; but as the case stands we cannot be expected to have any particular affection for a little impish creature who evidently sets us all at defiance; or who will at least endeavour to do so. Now, madame, you are a woman of the world; and you must be perfectly aware that I owe a duty to myself, and to my children, which I cannot in common justice neglect for a penniless girl who has been forced upon us as Ella has been; and that I ought not, by indulging her in habits of extravagance and luxury, to mislead her into a false estimate of her own importance in the family. If I were only aware at once how the matter will terminate, I could decide upon the course which it would be proper for me to pursue; but under existing circumstances I really know not how to act."

Lady Harriette paused at last, almost out of breath; for, although Madame Despreaux had listened with the most respectful attention to her harangue, and even succeeded in repressing every indication of the astonishment and scorn which she felt at the great lady's unmitigated worldliness and egotism, she had not uttered a syllable. The gentle governess had already opened her own warm and ample heart to the little orphan, unprepossessing as she was; and she consequently could not reply to the arguments of her companion in the spirit of sympathy which was evidently expected of her.

"There are so many things to be considered;"pursued the mistress of Ashton Court, apparently unconscious that her previous reasoning had elicited neither comment nor acquiescence; "In the event of the child being wealthy, I should of course wish her to participate in all the advantages enjoyed by my own daughters; the benefit of your tuition and superintendence, my dear madame, not being the least among them; and this new demand upon your time and energies would naturally induce a considerable augmentation in your salary."

"Believe me, Miladi -- " interposed the governess eagerly.

"Not a word, I request, on such a subject;" interrupted Lady Harriette in her turn, with a gesture at once haughty and courteous; "I trust that I am aware of what is due alike to myself and to you. I was simply about to add that I presume this additional responsibility will be entailed on you, madame, in any case; and indeed it is only correct that the child of Sir Hercules Ashton's brother should receive the education of a gentlewoman; but all beyond this must, of course, depend upon the result of the present most irritating business, as expensive accomplishments would be altogether out of place should she be portionless. There is nothing in the world more ridiculous than to spend a fortune upon the education of a girl who cannot aspire to any better fate than to become the wife of a village curate, or a country apothecary."

"But surely, Miladi, those very accomplishments would help to make Miss Ella more independent of the assistance of her family;" urged the good-hearted Frenchwoman.

"I trust that I do not understand you correctly, Madame Despreaux;" said Lady Harriette; "you must be well aware of the very great respect which I have always evinced towards yourself; it was no more than what you had a right to claim, after having so admirably formed the three charming and graceful daughters of the Duchess of Belburton; but I do not affect to extend that feeling to all persons of your profession; and sooner than see the cousin of my daughters working for her bread, I would -- "

"Pardon me, Miladi!" exclaimed Madame Despreaux with considerable animation; "I had forgotten for the moment, that, although when I was deprived by the revolution, of my rank, my name, and my place about the person of my royal and unfortunate mistress, I considered it more dignified to avail myself of the little talent which I might possess, in order rather to suffice to myself than to become a burthen upon the charity of my friends, I had no right to assume any dictation as to the feelings of others."

"The cases are widely different, madame;" Lady Harriette hastened to reply, while the colour mounted to her cheek; "there is something grand in the misfortunes caused by so tremendous a calamity as a national convulsion; but something petty and paltry in having been driven to poverty by the ill-judged speculation of a bankrupt-merchant, or the reckless prodigality of a spendthrift. It is, however, perhaps very idle to waste more words upon the subject, until we have it in our power to discuss it upon sure and rational premises."

The conversation was here interrupted by the entrance of the two little girls from their mid-day walk in the park; which, missing the accustomed companionship of their indulgent preceptress, they had considerably curtailed; but not even their return, fresh and blooming as twin roses, could dispel the unpleasant impression produced upon the mind of the Frenchwoman by the confidential interview just terminated. Having resolved, when driven from her own land, to look her reverse of fortune steadily in the face, and to accept, as its natural consequence, all the privations, and even humiliations, to which it could not fail to subject her, so long as they did not affect her self-respect, the emigrant countess, for such in truth she was, had meekly borne the "proud man's contumely;" and with a smile of pity, not for herself, but for those who superciliously overlooked the gentlewoman in the governess, had seen herself banished from the drawing-room to the school-room, and rendered dependant for all society on her pupils. Fortunate was it for the much-enduring lady that her nature was essentially genial and kindly; and that when not saddened by old memories, she could find, or make her happiness in the pure, priceless love of the young, trusting hearts that eagerly responded to her affection.

"May we go to Ella's room, and enquire after her nurse, mamma, when we have taken off our bonnets?" asked Matilda.

"Certainly, my love; I can have no possible objection to your doing so;" said Lady Harriette graciously; "for, however ill the woman behaved in the first instance -- and she certainly did behave extremely ill in rushing from the house in so disgraceful a manner -- still I am quite ready to admit that her devotion to your little cousin, mistaken as it was, nevertheless proved her to be faithful and trustworthy; and, by-the-bye -- " she pursued, as if a sudden thought had struck her; "you may as well mention that Ella's luggage, which was very absurdly deposited in the servants' hall is greatly in the way, and that Mrs. Brooks has complained to me of the inconvenience it has occasioned. The sooner, therefore, that the cases can be examined, and put into their proper places the better, as it is impossible that any arrangement can be made until we have ascertained the nature of their contents; which it is, moreover, highly necessary that your papa should do at once."

"And may we bring back Ella with us to the school-room?" asked Florence in her turn.

"If she thinks proper to come; indeed, you can tell her it is my wish that she should do so. A child of her age can be of no possible use in a sick-room; and the sooner she conforms to the rules of the family, the better it will be for all parties. At six years' old, children ought to be under proper control and guidance; and it can certainly be no hardship or sacrifice for your cousin to exchange the companionship of her black nurse for yours; or the ignorant and misjudging indulgence of an uneducated Indian for the enlightened kindness of madame."

"But they really do love each other very much, mamma;" said little Matilda, looking up into her mother's face with her large, sunny, loving eyes,.

"No doubt of it, my dear;" was the maternal reply; "too much, I fear, for the welfare of your cousin. All will, however, no doubt, come right in time. And now, away with you, children, and do not forget to say what I have told you to Diana."

The little girls once more disappeared; and it was immediately evident to the governess that some new idea had fastened upon the mind of Lady Harriette; that "a change" had come "o'er the spirit of her dream." Nor was her penetration at fault; the recollection of the enormous amount of luggage, which had for a time escaped her memory, had set her castle-building again; and it was with a smile which was almost radiant, that she turned to Madame Despreaux as she was about to leave the room, and said in her blandest and most genial tone:

"After all, my dear madame, it would not at all astonish me if our little Creole should ultimately turn out a great heiress; certainly her travelling accessories have been most elephantine in their proportions. The baggage of a regiment upon its march could scarcely exceed that which has been unloaded in my servants' hall."

"I trust that it may prove as valuable as it is bulky;" was the quiet rejoinder of the Frenchwoman.

"I trust so myself -- for the child's sake;" said the mistress of the mansion, as with a gracious bend of the proud head which always appeared as though it mentally bore the weight of the Disborough coronet, she withdrew from the room.

When she found herself alone the gentle-hearted exile leant her head upon her hand, and fell into a deep and sad reverie. She had hitherto almost derived amusement from the cold haughtiness of Lady Harriette; for she was at once too meek and too noble-minded to feel any resentment at an assumption which degraded only the individual by whom it was indulged. She honoured her patroness for the devoted affection which she bore to her children, even although it was somewhat partially displayed. She had striven to believe that it was the head, not the heart, of Lady Harriette which was in fault; but she could so delude herself no longer.

Had she not coldly and insultingly admitted that the respect which she found herself, almost reluctantly, compelled to yield to the preceptress of her children, was not elicited by her worth, her integrity, or her zeal in fulfilling conscientiously all her duties towards her pupils, but to the accidental fact that she had "formed" the daughters of a duchess?

In Lady Harriette's earnestness to unbosom herself to some one on the subject by which she was absorbed, Madame Despreaux had been favoured with an amount of condescension and confidence entirely new to her from the wife of Sir Hercules Ashton; but her experience of the world -- and it had been so stern, that it was beautiful to reflect how little it had embittered her frank and generous nature -- taught her at once to feel that the proud woman who had thus laid bare to her the dark workings of her spirit, had merely done so from the consciousness that there was less degradation in asking the advice and opinion of her children's governess than that of her own waiting-maid. "Would that she had decided otherwise;" mused the Frenchwoman; "for henceforward she has forfeited all claim to my respect. I can read her very soul. Let this unhappy child be tricked out in jewels, and mistress of thousands, and she will have no warmer, no more enthusiastic friend, than Lady Harriette Ashton; she will be all in all to her; indulgent, forbearing, and considerate; she will refuse her nothing, not even the hand of her idolized son, should the heiress see fit to smile upon him; but woe, and double woe upon the orphan, should she have no tie upon her tenderness but that of kindred. -- Well, well -- " (thus the tide of thought flowed on through that earnest bosom;) "it must be my task in that case to smooth her thorny path, and to throw some few cheering gleams of sunshine upon her clouded way. It will be pleasant to both of us to have something to love without fear of coldness or of change. These other dear girls, good and affectionate as they are, will forget me in the brilliant fate which awaits them a few years hence; they are both lovely, and the world will claim them as its worshippers; but the strange, wild-looking, unprepossessing child upon whom the eye of fashion would fasten scornfully, should she not be able to purchase its smile, will not be thus separated from me in spirit when she has ceased to need my care. The flowers will be scattered, but the leafless stem will remain upon the branch unheeded. I am still young, and who knows what may be reserved for me in the far future? We may each be one day left alone -- and then -- but shame upon me! Am I not beginning almost to indulge the selfish hope that such may be the case? What right have I, because I am desolate -- yes, very desolate -- to contemplate such a fate for a fellow creature with any feeling but one of sincere and unmitigated terror? Ah! Cecile de Montluc, sorrow has sadly changed you!"

And the self-convicted woman wept over her involuntary fault.

CHAPTER X.

THE INHERITANCE.

The orphan did not return to the schoolroom with her cousins; and the only reply made by the ayah to the message of Lady Harriette was an immediate attempt to leave her bed. In vain did the frightened children expostulate; and although it was evident that the effort was attended with considerable pain, the Indian woman did not utter a complaint; she removed the wrappings from her still unhealed hands in order to use them more freely; and having at length succeeded in arranging her dress, she took her nursling in her arms, descended to the offices as rapidly as her lacerated limbs would permit.

Once in the servants' hall, she placed the child carefully on a seat, threw a large shawl about her; and then taking a key which hung upon a chain about her neck, she proceeded to open a large chest which she selected from a number of others.

The task before her had been lightened of much of its difficulty and tedium; for, by a happy foresight which was highly creditable to her. Lady Harriette had already caused all the cords to be removed, and every facility afforded for the investigation for which she yearned.

With a rapidity which not even the physical suffering that it caused sufficed for an instant to diminish, the ayah flung back successively the lid of every box, and the covering of every case. Indignation flashed from her eyes, and quivered through her frame. She could not mistake the motive of the eagerness betrayed by Lady Harriette to ascertain the probable value of the property deposited beneath her roof, and she resented it as an insult to her beloved charge.

"Fetch Begum;" she said contemptuously, as she tossed out armful by armful a mass of costly stuffs and gorgeous shawls upon the floor, to the astonishment and dismay of several of the upper servants who were curiously watching her movements: "Heart of Begum gladder for shawl and turban dan for poor moderless piccaniny. Begum take -- piccaniny laugh, -- Begum poor, piccaniny rich, -- sahib rich. Go, fetch Begum."

"Well, upon my word, I think that we can't do better;" said portly Mrs. Brooks, whose dignity was strangely disturbed by the splendid confusion amid which she stood; "for never did I expect to see anything so awful as this in a Christian country, and far less at Ashton Court! Sarah, beg Mr. Andrews to send one of the footmen to her ladyship, to explain to her what is going forward; for, as I said before, I never did see such a sight in all my life."

The authoritative housekeeper was obeyed; and Lady Harriette, duly appreciating the importance of the emergency, condescended to descend to the offices.

All her anticipations, bright as they had occasionally been, were, however, exceeded by the spectacle that met her eyes as she reached the door of the room which was the theatre of the extraordinary scene we have described. The ayah was still busily employed in emptying case after case upon the uncarpetted floor; and even the haughty Lady Harriette could not suppress an exclamation of horror.

"Are you deranged, woman?" she cried vehemently, as she clutched with no gentle grasp the arm of the Indian; "Are you mad, I ask? Desist immediately! Do you not see that you are destroying, by your reckless haste, treasures almost beyond price?"

The ayah desisted from her task, and measured the speaker with the glance of an empress.

"Dem!" she said contemptuously, as she pointed towards the parti-coloured heap of shawls mingled with embroideries in gold and silver, which encumbered the apartment; "Dem noting! Piccaniny rich, sahib rich, rajah rich. -- Take, wear, give, -- pay for piccaniny."

This taunt, which, at another time, would have roused the ire of the proud lady of the mansion, passed totally unheeded. Her whole soul was in the scattered treasures before her. The value of hundreds, it might even be of thousands, had transformed her servants' hall into a scene of oriental magnificence; and there was no room in the heart of Lady Harriette Ashton at that moment for either resentment or displeasure.

After giving hurried orders for the collection and proper re-arrangement of the desecrated wealth which she found herself at that moment utterly unable to appreciate justly, but upon which she nevertheless based the most splendid anticipations with regard to the colossal fortune that was to follow, she reascended to the morning room, where the baronet was deeply engrossed by the leader of the Times.

"My dear Sir Hercules;"she exclaimed, almost breathless from excitement; "I have just witnessed the most extraordinary scene! I was, as you know, very properly requested by Brooks to descend to the offices; and in the servants' hall I found the attendant of your niece -- who, by the bye, must be most unequivocally deranged, and a very improper and unsafe companion for the poor dear child -- standing in the middle of the floor, upon which she had flung, without the slightest care or precaution, a mass of shawls, silks, and muslins, which appear to me to be almost beyond price. You may easily believe that I at once put a stop to so frantic a proceeding, and ordered immediate measures to be taken for restoring every thing to order; after which the cases must, without further loss of time, be removed for greater security to the strongroom, until we decide upon their final appropriation."

"It appears to me, my love;" was the quiet reply; "that we, meaning of course you and myself, have no right whatever of decision in the business; the property, be its nature or value what it may, belongs clearly to my niece."

"And what on earth. Sir Hercules, do you imagine that your niece, should her fortune even prove to be colossal, can want with shawls and dresses enough to supply a county?" asked Lady Harriette with some warmth.

"Really, my dear, I cannot say; but one thing at least is certain;" replied the baronet good-humoredly; "that if she be a great heiress, she alone has the right to dispose of them: while, if the contrary should prove to be the case, it will be my duty to impress upon her the propriety of turning them into money, in order that when she quits our roof for a home of her own, as most young ladies do when they reach a marriageable age, she may not leave us quite penniless, or be indebted to our generosity for her modest marriage-portion!"

"You really astonish me, Sir Hercules;" retorted his wife; "by even giving utterance to such a supposition! Is it commonly rational to believe that a young lady with a trousseau worthy of an imperial princess, can have succeeded to no other inheritance than the contents of her trunks? The idea is positively too ridiculous!"

"Well, my dear, I trust that your judgment may prove a correct one. I can desire nothing so much as the welfare and happiness of my poor brother's orphan."

Lady Harriette made no reply; but the abruptness with which she seated herself at her embroidery-frame, contrasting as it did so forcibly with her habitually stately demeanour, betrayed her vexation at the calm indifference of the baronet to a subject which she had allowed to absorb her feelings so entirely.

Another consideration, moreover, conspired to heighten her annoyance. Until the arrival of the little orphan among them, Sir Hercules had for years been both the most compliant and the most pliant of husbands; but upon the subject of his brother's child he evinced a will and a despotism fully equal to her own, and so much the more formidable that they were never enforced by arrogance or temper; nor was it long ere his wife perfectly understood that, however yielding he might still prove in every other respect, he would assume and maintain his right to the sole guardianship of his niece.

And she was right; for in the bosom of the baronet there existed not only a feeling of regretful affection towards that brother, but also a sentiment of remorse that probed his spirit to the quick. It is probable that had Horace Ashton parted from him in amity and affection, the baronet would have received the orphan into his house with kindness and welcome; but that after having so done, he would have taken all else for granted, and have contented himself with talking of his three girls, and treating them alike as his children; now, however, it was far otherwise; he was conscious that he had much to repair, many shortcomings to expiate; and thus his care of the fatherless child was with him not only a duty, but a principle; while all the old sturdy leaven of his nature, awakened for a higher and a holier purpose than any which had hitherto called it forth, unconsciously, but most efficiently, enabled him to display an amount of self-assertion and self-reliance which Lady Harriette had fondly flattered herself he had long ceased to possess.

As the parti-coloured worsted was drawn through the canvas upon which she was engaged her reflections were consequently anything rather than satisfactory. We none of us like to see the effort of years overthrown by the event of an hour, and that too one of apparent insignificance; for, after all, what was this puny child that she should come between herself and her long-acknowledged supremacy? Had not Lady Harriette been a gentlewoman she would fairly have lost her temper. Everything appeared to thwart and baffle her; it was a perfect domestic conspiracy; for not only had the baronet raked up the smouldering ashes of revolt which she had so thoroughly (as she supposed) extinguished in the first year of their married life, but even Horace, the pride of her heart, her petted favourite, the life and joy of the family circle, to whom her wishes and her opinions should have been a law, had openly declared himself the champion of the ungainly child; and Madame Despreaux, her dependent, had dared tacitly to rebuke her for speculations which she regarded as perfectly natural, and prudent; and sentiments which she considered that she had an undoubted right to express. All this was very provoking, very tormenting, very, unpardonable; and Lady Harriette was rapidly elevating herself into a martyr when the carriage was announced, and she found herself compelled to assume her wraps, and to accompany Sir Hercules, as had been previously arranged, to pay a morning visit to a county neighbour.

We will not intrude upon their tete-a-tete, as it produced no apparent effect upon the feelings or actions of Sir Hercules, even if it were devoted to the one subject by which their thoughts were mutually, but so very differently, engrossed.

The carriage had not long driven off when a light foot in the passage leading to the school room, and a low tap at the door, attracted the attention of Madame Despreaux and her pupils; and to their surprise and pleasure little Ella stood upon the threshold.

"Welcome, my dear child;" said the Frenchwoman extending her hand; while the two girls sprang forward to lead her across the floor; "may I hope that I am to have another good little pupil?"

"If you please, ma'am;" murmured the child, fixing her large eyes, half confidingly, half fearfully, on the kind face which bent over her; "I think, I hope, I will try to be good; Dia says I must try that; for papa wished it very much -- Poor papa!"

"I am sure you will try, Ella, and I am sure that you will succeed;" smiled madame; "and we shall love you so sincerely that you Avill find it very easy to love us in return. Do you not see how joyful your cousins are to have you here?"

"But I am six years old, and I know nothing: nothing;" said the child with a quivering lip.

"Oh, never mind that, dear;" exclaimed little Matilda, patronisingly, as she put her arms about her neck; "we will all teach you, and you will soon learn. Not that I know half so much as Florence, or a quarter so much as Horace, because Flory is older than me, and Horry is almost a man; but I can help you a little at first; and then madame, who knows everything, will make you as clever as all of us, before you are a grown-up woman."

Ella, as a natural consequence, gazed with increased awe upon the gifted governess who knew everything.

"It must be very hard;" she whispered, with a low sob.

"Do not alarm yourself, my dear child;" said madame; "a day now appears to you very long, but hour by hour it goes by; and so you will find your studies. It would be a terrible thing if all were to be learnt at once; but little by little you will learn, like your cousins, a great deal before you are aware of it."

"And will you teach me to pray for dear papa?" asked the child eagerly; "Dia has tried, but she can only pray in Hindostanee; and papa was English, you know -- poor papa!"

"We will all pray for your poor papa together; you, and your cousins, and myself;" said the Frenchwoman with a moisture in her eyes which was instantly detected by Ella, who seized her hand, and kissed it convulsively.

"And you must tell us all about India, dear;" said Matilda, who had decidedly appropriated to herself the office of patroness; "It will be such fun! Did my uncle Horace keep elephants? and did you ride in a palanquin? and oh, Ella! did you ever see a tiger?"

"You are asking too many questions at once, my love;" expostulated madame; "you will quite bewilder your little cousin. Besides, Matilda, you are at home, and therefore, before you seek amusement for yourself, you must endeavour to amuse her."

"I don't like to talk of India;" faltered the orphan; "beautiful India. I had papa there -- poor papa!"

"Well then;" said Florence cheerfully; "school will be over very soon now, and then we will tell you all sorts of pretty stories; and in the meantime you shall have a book full of pictures to amuse you."

"Are there monkeys in it?" asked the child, as the hot blood mounted to her cheek and brow; "don't show me any monkeys."

"Oh, I love monkeys!" cried little Matilda; "they are so droll and amusing. Why don't you like them, Ella?"

The child shuddered. "If Dia saw them she would carry me away again;" she whispered; "and hide me in that dark house in the wood."

"No, no, darling;" said Madame Despreaux, pressing her tenderly in her arms; "Dia will soon know us all better, and then she will not want to leave us, as she did at that time."

"The great boy will not hurt me, I am sure;" whispered Ella, as she laid her head upon the shoulder of her new friend; "but Dia is afraid of the great boy."

"Then I will never love Dia;" exclaimed Matilda with flashing eyes, as she clenched her tiny hand, and swelled with indignation; "for Horace is the dearest, kindest, funniest brother in the world."

Ella only replied by an approving and admiring smile; but madame was less edified by this little exhibition of temper, and poor Matilda's fit of enthusiasm terminated in a few tears.

The unexpected apparition of the orphan had, however, produced its effect; and from that moment the cousins were fast friends.

CHAPTER XI.

HOPES AND FEARS.

Time passed rapidly enough with every member of the Ashton Court family except Lady Harriette, to whom each hour appeared a century until the arrival of the promised intelligence from Constantinople. The self-inflicted wounds of Diana were healed, and she herself almost reconciled to the partial solitude occasioned by the studies of her beloved charge. Horace and his friend had returned to Eton, to the regret of old and young alike; and the usual calm and stately routine of the household was no longer invaded by bursts of boyish glee and the outbreaks of boyish wilfulness. Frank Hatherston had won golden opinions from his new friends, and was only suffered to depart under promise of a second visit to Leicestershire; while a tear had glistened in the eye of little Ella as she received her cousin's farewell kiss, for she had long ceased to shrink from his embrace.

The orphan was the pet of the school-room; and her progress was so rapid that the kind heart of Madame Despreaux exulted in her new pupil, who was soon far beyond the voluntary teaching of Matilda. The young intellect suffered to lie fallow, until reason, like sunshine lighting up an arid landscape, lent clearness and beauty to what would otherwise have been bleak and gloomy, eagerly grasped at all within its reach, and retained the treasures thus secured. But while the mind and heart of the child thus ripened; while she richly repaid the zeal of her preceptress, and responded to all the kindly affection which was poured out upon her, in person she remained as unprepossessing, and even more ungainly than ever. Her complexion continued dark and sallow, and her meagre limbs, exceeding in their growth that of her frail body, gave to her movements an awkwardness and want of grace which tortured the spirit of the courtly Frenchwoman; and frequently brought a sneer to the lip of Lady Harriette, as she contrasted the apparently hopeless gaucherie of her husband's niece with the natural ease and polish of her own blooming daughters.

The girls themselves, however, were totally unconscious of any deficiency in "dear Ella," whose school-room triumphs were to them all-important; and whose wild tales of her native land, of which she had gradually come to speak without effort, were a never failing source of interest and amusement. The memory of the orphan was one of exceeding tenacity; and when by chance it failed, an appeal to the ayah, who was her oracle in all things, and whom she loved with all the strength of her young pure heart, always supplied the missing link, and enabled her to complete her legend.

And marvellous enough were the tales she told, partly derived from her own recollections, partly drawn from those of her nurse before her birth; and it was occasionally with a flushed cheek and quivering eyelids that Lady Harriette listened to fragments of these wondrous stories as they were repeated to her by her daughters; for Ella still retained her old awe of the mistress of Ashton Court, and was silent and uneasy in her presence. There could be no doubt of the fact that Ella was a great heiress; she talked of almost unheard-of splendour with an unconscious simplicity which thrilled to the very heart of the Earl's daughter, who could not view it in the same common-place light, and thus Mr. Horace Ash-ton's little girl, despite her long arms, and her shock of unmanageable hair, became a very important personage in her eyes; and many were the unnecessary injunctions which she gave to the Frenchwoman with regard to her niece; many the emphatic declarations with which she favoured her on the necessity of so forming her mind -- she said nothing of her heart -- and so perfecting her in every social accomplishment, that she might do honour to the high position which she would one day occupy in the world.

"She is unfortunately plain it is true, my dear madame;" she said with a sigh at the close of one of these anxious and impressive monologues, for she seldom awaited any comment or reply from her listener; "but that, you know, is neither your fault nor mine; we cannot control nature, make what efforts we may to do so; and, after all, a well-educated and immensely wealthy girl like my little niece, can afford to dispense with beauty; and we must hope that, as she grows older, the refinement of the mind will produce its effect upon the body."

And as she occasionally overheard remarks of this description Ella would shrink away Math a painful consciousness of her inferiority to her little cousins, and wonder that such being the case they should love her so dearly; and that madame, and even Sir Hercules should bestow upon her as much care and affection as upon Florence and Matilda themselves. That she should be the one thought and happiness of her faithful Diana excited no astonishment in her guileless mind, for what to her were all the world beside compared to her ayah? But that these new friends should smile on her, and carets her, and be to her precisely as they would have been had she been beautiful and graceful as themselves, awoke in her a wonder which, as she never gave it utterance, afforded her constant matter for reflection.

"I must strive to be good, and kind, and grateful, as papa bade me;" she would whisper to herself; "and I must learn, learn, till I know everything like madame, or perhaps they will get tired of me, and all talk of my ugliness and my awkwardness like Lady Harriette. I do not cry when Lady Harriette says so, but it would break my heart if Florence and Matilda, and madame, and my kind uncle laughed at me, and despised me. I wonder what Horace thinks" -- and then the dark brow grew still darker, and the speculative light which had made the deep eyes gleam with the rich lustre of a carbuncle, died out; for the child remembered the first greeting of the reckless boy-cousin; and her self-proposed question was inaudibly answered.

"Well, I suppose I am very ugly -- " ran on the train of thought -- "Very ugly here in this proud England, where their cheeks are so bright and fresh, and their hair so smooth and shining -- and so perhaps when I have grown to be a woman, I had better go back with Dia to our own dear home."

Poor child! She did not yet understand that she no longer possessed a home on earth save the stranger-one in which she was then abiding.

Thus were things situated when an Indian letter once more reached Sir Hercules Ashton. The orphan had resided nearly two years beneath his roof, and his large heart had found ample space to admit her beside his own children. Horace had come and gone; on each occasion more manly, more subdued, and more eager for his translation to Cambridge, whither his friend Hatherston had preceded him. Florence had increased in beauty; and even Matilda began to consider herself on the verge of womanhood, and to talk of "little Ella" with an amusing assumption of matronly superiority and wisdom. The baronet was a shade more gouty than ever, and a little more irritable under his sufferings; but with Lady Harriette time appeared to have stood still, as is frequently the case with persons whose constitutional egotism saves them from all share in the trials of others; and whose sympathies have so narrowed as to centre solely upon themselves.

To all which affected her own comfort, her own importance, and her own interests, Lady Harriette was, however, keenly alive; and it was consequently with very considerable emotion that, in compliance with the request of her husband, who was at the moment most unphilosophically writhing under the torture of a fiercer series of twinges than usual, she proceeded to break the seal of the all-important letter.

Thus it ran: -- 

"Dear Sir,

"It is with the most sincere regret that I announce to you the death of my excellent friend and partner Mr. Braveby, which melancholy event took place at Constantinople on the 14th of September last. The plague having broken out with considerable virulence, my lamented friend was preparing to leave the city, when he was unhappily attacked by the disease, to which he fell a victim after eight-and-forty hours of the most frightful suffering. As I need scarcely explain, this fatal event necessitated so vast an amount of labour in our establishment that I have hitherto been compelled to postpone my present communication; which, however, I regretted the less as I have absolutely nothing satisfactory of which to inform you. Not a trace of any property appertaining to Mr. Horace Ashton, in which our house was concerned, exists in the private papers of Mr. Braveby, the whole of which are now in my possession; nor can either of our confidential clerks give me the slightest information upon the subject. It is therefore to be presumed that if any such property should in fact exist, Mr. Horace Ash ton must have negociated its transfer to England through some other house; a presumption, however, for which I frankly confess that I see no possible foundation when I consider the strong and long-standing friendship which existed between himself and Mr. Braveby."

Lady Harriette paused. Her breath came thick and fast, and her voice failed. She had for months past built up her pasteboard castle with none but court-cards -- she had mentally spurned all less gorgeous material, -- and now the whole glittering fabric was strewed in ruins at her feet!

"Poor child! Poor little Ella!" groaned Sir Hercules.

"It is all an abominable conspiracy!" at length gasped out his wife; "a swindling transaction from beginning to end; I am sure of it. What could your brother have done with his money? What could he mean by saying in his letter that he entrusted the fortune of his daughter to you with perfect confidence, if he knew that she was a beggar?

And here are we saddled with a girl who is likely to be a burthen to us for the rest of our days in the most shameful manner, when we have children of our own to introduce into the world in a style befitting their position."

Lady Harriette had lost her temper, and with it all sense of courtesy and womanly feeling.

"Read on;" said the baronet almost sternly, for he had some difficulty in subduing the indignation elicited by the coarse insinuations of his wife.

Lady Harriette, with a supreme gesture of contemptuous disgust, lifted the obnoxious letter from the table upon which she had flung it in her first moment of passion; and, after an instant's hesitation during which her curiosity triumphed over her sense of personal injury, she resumed her ungracious task.

"Under these circumstances -- " it proceeded; "there now only remains for me -- as I learn from the communication with which you favoured me on the receipt of my last that you are totally unacquainted with your lamented brother's Indian career -- to give you all the information which I possess on the subject. It was originally Mr. Horace Ashton's intention to enter into commerce, and he had accordingly furnished himself with numerous letters of introduction to the leading firms of several different presidencies; and among others he brought one to Mr. Braveby from an old and most esteemed correspondent. The acquaintance thus formed soon ripened into intimacy, and the two gentlemen became fast friends. I find on a careful examination of our books that heavy sums have from time to time been entrusted to our firm by Mr. Horace Ashton? but I also find notice of their removal from the house; all these entries are, however, of old date; and for the last ten years, his name has disappeared from our books altogether. I mention these facts as you may perhaps consider it desirable to make further enquiry among his friends in England.

"Having, unfortunately, nothing more either to communicate or to suggest regarding the financial afiairs of Mr. Horace Ashton, I will now proceed to give you a broad outline of his social career. I learnt from Mr. Braveby that nothing but want of capital prevented his friend from entering our firm; and that, aware of such being the fact, he actually made a proposal of that nature to Mr. Ashton, feeling that his high principle and great ability would be of the utmost value to the house; but the offer was firmly declined."

A low groan burst from the lips of the baronet.

"During his residence in Calcutta;" -- read on Lady Harriette in a hard unimpassioned tone, as though she scorned to yield even to her own feeling of bitter resentment; "he occupied himself most assiduously in perfecting his knowledge of the Oriental languages, in which he had already made great progress in England; and it was while he was thus employed that my late partner received an application from the Rajah of --, (with whom he had been for many years in correspondence,) to endeavour to induce some European gentleman of education and station in his own country, to become a resident at his court; where he would be treated with the highest consideration, and his services amply remunerated. Aware that the proposal was one which merited every attention, Mr. Braveby at once communicated it to Mr. Ashton. The idea delighted your brother, opening as it did a wide field of adventure and interest; and accordingly he left Calcutta, and proceeded up the country.

"As my partner had anticipated, he received by every opportunity the most satisfactory accounts of his friend's position; and ere long his letters reached him accompanied by the heavy remittances to which I have already alluded, and which, as I also stated, were subsequently withdrawn. This financial connection between Mr. Horace Ashton and our house continued until his marriage with the daughter of his princely patron, which occurred about ten years ago; after which period, I find no further trace of any business-transaction whatever between us.

"It will, however, doubtless afford his family considerable gratification to learn that Mr. Ashton's position at the court of the Rajah was one of the highest honour and dignity; and that, in bestowing upon him the hand of his only child, the prince had made him an alter ego, and consequently the second personage in his dominions; while the beautiful young creature to whom he was united, and whose mother had been an European lady of good birth, and consequently a Christian, completed by her affection the happiness of a life which was unfortunately too brief. The birth of her infant involved, as you are already aware, the death of the mother; and Mr. Ashton had no sooner become a widower than he withdrew from the court of his father-in-law, and once more established himself in Calcutta, where he continued to reside until the period of his decease.

"Whether the large sums once intrusted to our house were exhausted by the necessities of his splendid mode of life, or whether they were otherwise disposed of, the melancholy fate of the principal of our firm has deprived me of all means of ascertaining; the letters of Mr. Ashton, found among Mr. Braveby's private papers, never alluding to the subject; but I have considered it a duty to the memory of my old and regretted friend to place you in possession of all the facts relating to your brother of which I am cognizant; while I cannot moreover refrain from the avowal that, on due reflection, I myself believe the former supposition to be the correct one; as, during the second residence of Mr. Ashton at Calcutta, he certainly did not maintain such an establishment as warranted a belief in his great wealth.

"Pardon my prolixity, which has been caused by my desire to relieve, so far as I am enabled to do so on such vague grounds, all uncertainty as to the deceased gentleman's ultimate circumstances; and I need not say how sincerely I regret the result of my inquiries for the sake of his orphan daughter. Should she not have forgotten me, be good enough to offer to her my kindest remembrances; and believe me to be,

"Dear Sir,

"Yours obediently,

"Richard Trueman."

Long ere the voice of his wife sank into silence, the head of Sir Hercules had gradually become bowed upon his breast; but it was no thought of his brother's want of wealth by which the strong man had been subdued; not even a thought of his brother's portionless child had obtruded itself in his great sorrow; he was crushed by the vision which presented itself of that brother bereft of the one idol of his life, and in the utter desolation of his spirit, abandoning the brilliant scenes with which were associated the memories of her whom he had loved and lost; with no one near him to sustain or to console, far away from those of his own blood and his own name; a weary watcher for the repose which had come at last. Poor Sir Hercules! He would willingly have bartered ten years of his own existence to have called him back to life; to have urged his return to the home from which he had so long been an alien; and to have held him once more to his heart with a brother's grasp.

Vain and idle yearning! The grave is too jealous of its prey ever to yield up its dead. We may mourn, and even murmur; but the fiat which has gone forth is irrevocable, and we have only to submit.

CHAPTER XII.

DOMESTIC ARRANGEMENTS.

"You are very kind, madame; extremely kind;" said Lady Harriette Ashton, about a week subsequent to the arrival of the Indian letter which had set the final seal upon the prospects of little Ella; -- but although the words were flattering, the accent in which they were uttered, invested them with a far different meaning; "I am convinced that your intentions are excellent; but you must pardon me if I add that your judgment is in this instance decidedly defective. Circumstances have changed with the niece of Sir Hercules Ashton; and many things which were both prudent and proper for Mr. Horace Ashton's heiress, are totally unsuited to a hanger-on of her uncle's family. I should be extremely sorry to appear either harsh or unfeeling, but I owe a duty to my own children, and that duty I am resolved to perform."

The Frenchwoman bowed; her heart was throbbing almost to suffocation.

"It may be said;" pursued the lady of the mansion; "that our income is large, and that the introduction of a young relative into our home-circle can involve little inconvenience or outlay; that, however, is not the question. Had the Ashton property been double what it actually is, my rank would have enforced its proper expenditure. We have also three children to establish in the world, and they have every right to exact on our part that their circumstances should be such as to accord with their birth and expectations; nor will I suffer them to be disappointed for the sake of this child who has been so shamefully thrust upon us. Until her arrival in England, Sir Hercules and myself were of one mind and one opinion in all tilings; but since she has been beneath our roof she has been a constant subject of misunderstanding and annoyance."

"I sincerely grieve that such should have been the case;" madame Despreaux ventured to say soothingly.

"Such is, nevertheless, the fact;" continued her interlocutor; "and if you really feel any regret that Ella can no longer be allowed to profit by the teaching of the professors who are completing the education of my daughters, you certainly do not owe that regret to me; for had Sir Hercules acceded to my suggestion, -- which I consider as perfectly rational and reasonable -- that the mass of finery which as it now appears, forms the only fortune that the child is ever likely to possess, should be sent up to town to be disposed of, and the proceeds appropriated to her necessary expenses while residing with us, I should have made no objection, had they sufficed for such a purpose, to have still permitted the attendance of the masters. But even upon this point, simple as it is, I am again thwarted; Sir Hercules indeed permits, and even approves, of the idea of turning the said finery into money; but at the same time he insists that the whole amount, be its extent what it may, shall be invested for her use, and shall be suffered to accumulate, capital and interest, until she is of age. This notion is, I feel, quixotic to a degree; but I have striven in vain to argue him into reason, and have fairly given up the matter in despair."

A gleam of intense gratification passed over the expressive face of the governess, but she made no rejoinder.

"As I stated on a former occasion;" went on Lady Harriette, becoming more and more heated as she pursued her subject; "your own valuable services cannot be dispensed with; and, of course, I shall consider it only just, even under these unfortunate circumstances, not to withdraw the increase of salary which -- "

"I do beg of you to believe, Miladi -- "

"You already know my determination on that point, madame;" hastily interposed Lady Harriette with an imperious gesture; "therefore, pray do not let us discuss it again. What I particularly wish to impress upon you is the expediency of confining the future education of Miss Ella Ashton to the simply useful. It will be most ill-advised to persist in a course of accomplishments totally incompatible with her probable after-position; and, indeed, all possible competition with her cousins must be carefully avoided. The sooner she is taught to understand the difference in their prospects, the more easily she will become reconciled to what cannot be repaired."

"It is a sad pity!" sighed madame, half sorrowfully, and half indignantly; "for she is full of talent and enthusiasm."

"I am sorry to hear it;" was the hard reply; "as neither the one nor the other is likely to profit her in the world. Be that as it may, however, you now know my sentiments and feelings upon the subject, and you will much oblige me by acting accordingly."

"It will be a terrible blow to the poor dear child;" said the Frenchwoman.

"You are all most astonishingly infatuated with this plain ungainly girl;" exclaimed Lady Harriette with undisguised bitterness; "I confess I did expect that the members of my own family would have felt for me and remembered the disappointment and vexation to which I have been subjected; instead of which I find myself compelled to bear my burthen without sympathy or support from any one. This, however, matters little, as I shall, I doubt not, be enabled to make such arrangements as will effectually reduce its pressure. All beneath my roof appear to have forgotten a fact which I at least bear in remembrance, that in the event of my son becoming one day Earl of Disborough, the income of Sir Hercules will be severely taxed; and that we shall find it worse than impolitic to lessen its capabilities by the reckless adoption of needy relations.

"But milord Compton is young;" observed Madame Despreaux; "and it is to be hoped -- "

"My lord Compton is mortal, madame;" again interposed her irate ladyship; "and I know several instances of succession, where two, and even three persons stood in the way of the individual who ultimately became the representative of the family. All this is idle, however; the proprieties of life must be observed; and consequently Miss Ella Ashton must receive such an education as may enable her to do credit to the name she bears; while I have a full reliance on your good sense, when I say that I trust to yourself to bestow it on her. Beyond this it is my determination that she shall not be permitted to go, as any weakness in this respect can only tend to her future unhappiness."

"I will endeavour to obey, Miladi;" said the governess dejectedly.

"I expect no less from you, madame; and I am quite sure that on reflection you will appreciate the prudence of my resolution both as regards ray own family and the poor child herself -- And now I will absorb no more of your valuable time -- " added Lady Harriette, with a shade more graciousness than she had hitherto exhibited; "I see your pupils returning from their drive with their papa, and I am anxious to learn how Sir Hercules has borne the exertion." And,so saying, she bowed herself from the room.

On reaching her own apartments the stately egotist walked to the window, and a dark shadow passed over her brow as her eye fell upon the watchful ayah, who was standing beneath the portico, anxiously awaiting the return of her idolized charge; a few inarticulate sounds escaped her lips, which were curved into a smile of triumphant malice for an instant, as though a sudden thought, over which she gloated, had flashed across her mind; but in an instant she was again cold and composed, and not a line remained upon her haughty forehead.

The three girls were full of joy and laughter as they entered the house, and Lady Harriette detected at a glance that the baronet was as merry as his young companions. Good, worthy man! he forgot alike his years and his ailments as their pure fresh voices sounded in his ears, and their fond and innocent caresses gladdened his heart; while even Ella herself, when relieved from the presence of the dreaded Lady Harriette, being the object of her uncle's especial tenderness, ventured to rival her cousins in mirth and enjoyment. As her foot pressed the threshold of the house, however, she became suddenly silent; and locking her hand fast in that of Diana, she ascended with her to her own room, while Sir Hercules and his daughters proceeded to that in which Lady Harriette was awaiting them.

"I have promised the girls that, with your permission, they shall share our luncheon, my love;" said Sir Hercules, as, leaning upon his crutch, he made his way to his accustomed chair; "do you ratify my pledge?"

"If you wish it, certainly;" was the reply; "although I confess that I cannot approve of such an innovation upon their usual habits. However, for once I will waive my objection; so go, my dears, and prepare yourselves, as I am much occupied to-day, and it will inconvenience me to wait."

"Oh, thank you, mamma;" exclaimed Matilda; "we will make all the haste we can; and I will go and hurry Ella."

"You need not do anything of the kind, my dear; your cousin will dine with her governess."

"And why so?" asked the baronet hastily.

"You are aware, Sir Hercules;" replied his lady, with one of her coldest and most determined smiles; "that I have a great objection to an odd number at table; it absolutely makes me quite nervous."

The baronet knew only too well the result of making her ladyship "quite nervous," and he did not consequently venture to expostulate.

Lady Harriette triumphed. She had, very considerately, already commenced the system by which she intended to preserve her niece from the risk of future unhappiness.

An hour or two subsequently, the presiding genius of the lower apartments was summoned to the presence of her mistress. Sir Hercules had fallen asleep in a well-cushioned chair beside the dining-room fire; the girls were once more at their studies; and Lady Harriette was seated in solemn state at her embroidery frame.

"Come in, Brooks;" said her ladyship in her blandest tone, as the important functionary stood curtseying at the door; "I want to speak to you on a matter of some importance!"

The housekeeper curtsied again, lower than before.

"I know that I can trust to your good sense and discretion;"continued Lady Harriette; "and as I have unfortunately been hurried by my feelings into a piece of folly which cannot fail, sooner or later, to expose me to great inconvenience, I shall be glad to understand in how far you may be enabled to help me out of the difficulty."

"I am sure, my lady, if I can be useful to your ladyship in any way;" said the obsequious Mrs. Brooks; "you have only to command me."

"I am convinced of your good-will and attachment;" smiled her mistress; "and, indeed, I feel that I have a claim upon both yourself and Andrews, for you may remember the difficulties with which I had to contend when I insisted on establishing you here."

"I do, and always shall, my lady; and very grateful we both are."

"Well, Brooks, I am about to treat you confidentially;" pursued Lady Harriette, with a faint flush which betrayed that she was immolating her pride to expediency, and that she did not do it without an effort; "you will also remember that when my husband's niece arrived at Ashton Court, both Sir Hercules and myself were led to believe that she was a wealthy heiress."

"To be sure you were, my lady;" exclaimed her listener energetically; "and I must say that it was a shameful business altogether!"

"I quite agree with you, Brooks; however, the bubble has now burst, and we are no longer deceived upon the subject; while I am greatly mistaken in your character if you have not discrimination enough to feel that the position of Miss Ella Ashton the heiress, and that of a poor relation of Sir Hercules, is widely different."

"I should think so indeed, my lady;" was the ready and scornful rejoinder; "there can hardly be two opinions on that subject; and I can assure your ladyship that there was but one voice in the servants' hall, particularly as the under house-maids have had to wait upon that outlandish black woman; which as you know, my lady, they were never hired to do."

"True;" said her ladyship complacently; "we could not of course contemplate such a contingency."

"Certainly, my lady; and therefore, and for other considerations, they did not complain to your ladyship; but I cannot answer for the matter now."

"At all events, my good Brooks, I shall not suffer you to be inconvenienced by a change of servants on account of Miss Ella Ashton's nurse;" was the rejoinder of Lady Harriette. "The thing is totally out of the question. I am obliged to you for having informed me of the discontent of your subordinates. I have a great dislike to anything like discontent in my establishment, particularly where the feeling is a legitimate one."

"I am sure your ladyship is very considerate;" simpered the housekeeper.

"I have been thinking, Brooks;" pursued Lady Harriette, with all the sententiousness of a person who had devoted the greatest attention to the subject upon which she was about to speak; "that we are likely before long to have some resident guests in the house: in which case, you know, we shall be quite unable to dispense with the south room. I am sorry, of course, to disturb the niece of Sir Hercules, but I have no alternative. I could not possibly put Lord and Lady Trevethick into a sleeping apartment where there is no cabinet de toilette; and, indeed, it is preposterous to imagine that I should be so discourteous to my friends as to allow them to be inconvenienced for a little girl and a negress."

"I should think so indeed, my lady: and they the first people in the county too. Your ladyship may rely on me; and if you will be kind enough, my lady, to tell me where you wish Miss Ella and the black woman to be accommodated for the future, I will take care that you shall have no more trouble on the subject," said Mrs. Brooks majestically.

"Well -- Brooks -- " replied her mistress after a pause; and slowly, as though she found some difficulty in giving utterance to what she was about to say -- "I don't know -- I may be wrong -- but it strikes me that the night-nursery, which is now you are aware used only as a lumber-room, would be precisely what we require. It is large, airy, quite out of the way; and, in every respect, most eligible."

Even the housekeeper was taken by surprise, and remained silent.

"You of course comprehend;" pursued Lady Harriette rather confusedly; "that some alterations and improvements will be necessary. I would have given Miss Ella Ashton the day-nursery, but I cannot disturb Mademoiselle Sophie; and [really, it strikes me that with a comfortable carpet and curtains -- "

"I will do my best, my lady."

"I am sure you will, Brooks, so that affair is settled; and when do you think the arrangement can be made?"

"All shall be done as soon as possible, my lady; but as the place has not been used for the last eight years, and is somewhat damp, I think it will be near a month -- "

"A month! Nonsense!"angrily exclaimed Lady Harriette; "the idea is absurd; a good fire for a couple of days after the lumber is removed, is all that can be requisite."

"Perhaps so, my lady;" was the rejoinder; "only as the shutters have remained closed ever since the young ladies were removed to their present suite, I fear that the window-frames must be in a bad state; indeed, I know that they are so from their appearance outside; and if your ladyship remembers, I mentioned this to you, my lady, a year or two ago; but as they opened on the stable-yard, and could not be seen from the grounds, you thought it of no consequence."

"Now you mention it, I do recollect something of the kind;" said Lady Harriette visibly annoyed. "Well, you must send for the carpenter, and order the necessary repairs to be made. The room is large, and will accommodate both the child and her nurse. I do not see that I can make a better arrangement."

"I will attend to it immediately, my lady."

"Do so; for I cannot dispense with the south room."

A fortnight afterwards the orphan and her ayah were installed in their new apartment. Ella the heiress had been pillowed on down, screened from the night air by draperies of satin damask, surrounded by gilded mirrors, carved oaken panels, and toys and trinkets of all kinds; and looked from her tall window upon noble trees, and limpid water, and bright-coloured blossoms; Ella the orphan slept upon a little bed curtained with dimity, in a room whose walls were coldly covered with a faded, time-worn paper, where no object of luxury broke the weary monotony of the scene around her; and when she wandered to her casement, it was only to shrink back in disgust from sights and scents to which she had hitherto been a stranger.

She wept bitterly the first night, poor desolate child! She wept herself to sleep, but she did not murmur; while the Indian woman, sweeping the whole room with a glance as bitter as hate could make it, cowered in a corner, and covered her face with her hands, as she murmured from time to time a few sentences in her native tongue, which assuredly called down no benison upon the relatives of her idolised nursling.

The second phase of the orphan's European existence had arrived.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE MARCH OF TIME.

That Lady Harriette Ashton could effect so serious a change in the position of her niece without certain qualms of conscience, no one will be prepared to believe; and it was doubtlessly owing to these disagreeable and obtrusive sensations that she avoided all personal investigation of the new apartment which had been appropriated to the use of Ella and her attendant, and absented herself entirely from the schoolroom, leaving to Madame Despreaux the task of releasing the professors from their attendance on the orphan.

Nothing could have happened more fortunately, as the generous-minded Frenchwoman had become so great a favourite with the several masters, that when, having secured a suitable opportunity, she explained to them with the true eloquence of the heart, and with a delicacy which admirably screened the egotism of Lady Harriette, the altered prospects of their little pupil, there was a general declaration that the withdrawal of Ella from the several classes would tend to discourage her cousins, and to destroy the emulation by which they were all three so greatly benefitted; and it was ultimately decided that, without permitting the sensitive child to have a suspicion of the truth, her studies were to be continued at a decreased rate of payment, to be furnished by the kindhearted governess, whose affection for her young charge had become almost maternal.

Meanwhile Sir Hercules, who entertained no suspicion of the domestic arrangements by which his brother's child had been made to feel that she had degenerated into a poor relation, -- the most onerous position upon earth for a high spirit and a generous nature, -- was earnestly endeavouring to secure from the remnant of the property which had so mysteriously disappeared, but of whose former existence he had never for an instant doubted, a small fortune for Ella. Large as was his own income, the claims upon it were so numerous, and the jealousy of Lady Harriette on pecuniary matters was so great, that he shrank from any attempt to divert even the smallest portion of it from herself and her children; and it was, consequently, with even nervous anxiety, that he awaited the information he sought relatively to the value of the property which had accompanied Ella to England.

Fortunately, just at this period Horace and his friend Hatherston arrived at Ashley Court; and their surprise was extreme when they learned the result of the brilliant expectations in which the relatives of the orphan had indulged. After their first astonishment had somewhat subsided, Sir Hercules proceeded to inform them of the steps that he was taking to realise a small sum for his niece, which might accumulate during her minority,and thus afford a moderate provision for her after-life. The replies which he had hitherto received to his inquiries from the agents to whom he had forwarded the articles of which he sought to dispose, had, however, been so unsatisfactory, from their discrepancy with his own idea of their value, that he had hesitated to authorise any sale; and he no sooner mentioned this circumstance than Frank exclaimed earnestly: -- 

"Leave the matter in my hands, my dear sir; and rely on it that the poor little girl shall not be defrauded of a single shilling. My uncle has so wide an Anglo-Indian connection, that there is no man in Great Britain more competent to enforce her interests. He knows by long experience the actual value of all Indian produce; and will have no difficulty in obtaining it for your niece, be the articles what they may."

This offer was, of course, joyfully accepted; and ere long the baronet received the welcome intelligence that the sum realised had been four thousand pounds, which in ten or eleven years would, with the compound interest accruing thereon, place the child of his brother at least above want. Hearty were his self-gratulations on arriving at this conclusion, but those of his wife were much less so.

"You cannot be serious, Sir Hercules;" she said with considerable asperity. "Have you not frequently regretted that you could not, with justice to your son, give your daughters more than ten thousand pounds each? And are you prepared to place your niece -- a child who has been, I must say, most unhandsomely thrust upon us -- in nearly as good a position as they will be? The thing is absurd! What right have we to be burdened with the education and maintenance of Miss Ella Ashton while she possesses the means of self-sustainment? Were she totally destitute, I should not, of course, have a word to say; but under existing circumstances I must be permitted to remark, that the duty which you owe to your own family will not permit so ostentatious an exhibition of munificence. We have to look forward to many years of care and responsibility with this child; and it appears to me that by appropriating a moiety of the sum to her expenses while under our roof, and investing the remainder as you have just proposed, you will act fairly, and even generously, to all parties." "Surely, Lady Harriette;" exclaimed her husband in an accent of offended dignity; "you do not wish me to understand that the orphan of my only brother should be expected to pay for her board and lodging under my roof? No, no; I must have misconstrued your meaning."

"Not at all;" retorted the lady, contracting the lines of her mouth until the thin lips almost disappeared; "You appear to have overlooked a probability which has, however, never escaped me. The life of my father, with his reckless and dissipated habits, is by no means a good one; while that of my brother, ailing as he has been from his birth, is even still more insecure; and, in the event of their demise, you will do well to remember that Horace -- that your own son -- will become the representative of the Disboroughs with barely a necessary income to support the honor of the peerage."

"It is true that he will inherit little save liabilities from his predecessors in the dignity;" observed the baronet, with a sarcasm unusual to his frank and loyal nature.

"The more imperative, therefore, is the necessity of husbanding all your resources Sir Hercules;" replied his wife steadily, and without the quivering of an eyelid; "and I shall not, therefore, suffer the interests of my son to be sacrificed to those of a stranger."

"Lady Harriette Ashton;" said the baronet, suddenly sitting upright in his chair, and drawing his tall figure to its utmost height; "you have surely, in giving me" such an assurance, forgotten in your turn two rather important circumstances; allow me to remind you of them. In asking your hand, I asked and obtained nothing more; though I believe I am correct in asserting that your settlement would have led a stranger to a very different conclusion; while Horace Ashton, although he may -- which I trust that he never will -- become one day Earl of Disborough, is my son as well as your own; and that should he find his coronet encompassed by defective title-deeds, mortgages, and other documents of the same nature, he will at least not have inherited them from me."

The lips of Lady Harriette relaxed; she drew a long, a very long breath; and then sat in silence gazing upon her husband. She had never hitherto elicited a spark from the flint of his nature, but now the steel of her own had smitten upon it so sharply that the hidden fire flashed out. And for this sudden and unheard-of exhibition of self-will and self-assertion she was indebted to his penniless niece! The conviction nearly choked her for a time; but as Sir Hercules, writhing with the pain occasioned by the abrupt movement into which he had been betrayed, once more leant back upon his cushions, and began to pass his hand cautiously along the suffering limb, she slowly rallied.

"I had yet to learn. Sir Hercules Ashton;" she said bitterly; "that you could be alike unmanly and ungentlemanlike. I have never reproached you with your inability to confer a title on my son, and I certainly did not anticipate that you would taunt me with my want of power to enrich him. All further altercation on this very unpleasant subject is, however, idle. I now thoroughly understand, that having indulged your vanity when a young man by marrying the daughter of a peer, you are now resolved to foster your egotism as an old one by sacrificing her interests and those of her children to a whim, which, while it may possibly gain for you a reputation for generosity throughout the county, will certainly not insure to you one for either justice or sanity."

"I am sorry to see you take so false a view of my determination;" replied Sir Hercules; "which has been, I can conscientiously declare, partially based upon the conviction that I have more than once heard you yourself express, to the effect that so plain and unprepossessing a child as little Ella could never, when she reached womanhood, aspire to an eligible marriage, save through the medium of a large fortune. For our own dear girls we need entertain no such apprehension: and I therefore look upon it as my bounden duty, as it assuredly is my earnest desire, to secure to her at least a chance of forming such a match as from the rank and position of her family she is entitled to."

"Do you also remember how long a time has elapsed since I uttered that opinion? Sir Hercules;" asked his wife, as a hot flush rose to her brow, and burnt there; "and can you have been brought into almost daily contact with your niece without remarking the extraordinary and steadily-progressing change which has taken place in her appearance? Are you ignorant that Horace and his friend did not even recognise her on their arrival? and that if we are not very careful to prevent it, she will in a few years prove a formidable rival to Florence and Matilda?"

"I never entertained such a notion for an instant;" said the worthy baronet, elevating his bushy eyebrows in astonishment; "but I am glad to hear it; very glad to hear it. It is a sign that the dear child is happy and well-cared for; and I can assure you, my dear Lady Harriette, that I am sincerely grateful to you for all your kind and motherly affection to the poor orphan girl. However, I trust that she will one day repay it tenfold, while your own heart will reward you meanwhile."

It is possible that the person thus addressed might feel slightly embarrassed by so equivocal a compliment, but it is at least certain that she did not betray any symptom of confusion; on the contrary, she collected her silks and wools about her, and settled herself at her embroidery-frame as calmly as though she had not, for the first time in her life, been worsted in a war of will with her husband.

Here, therefore, terminated the contention, but it left behind it, in the mind and heart of Lady Harriette Ashton, a bitterness which did not fail to increase her jealousy and dislike of the helpless Ella; but for a time she remained perfectly passive. There was still a hope that Sir Hercules, on mature deliberation, might rescind his ridiculous determination; but when at length she ascertained that the four thousand pounds had actually been funded by the family solicitor, she could not longer restrain her indignation and annoyance. She was, however, too wise to betray her feelings in the presence of her husband; the first check sufficed; and she resolved that the subject of Ella's position at Ashton Court should never again be mooted between them.

There were, moreover, escape-valves enough by which her angry feelings could evaporate, and these were kept in constant play. Whenever the baronet, (who, since he had been incapacitated by the gout from pursuing his former avocations, had become extremely methodical in his money-matters,) remarked an increase in his quarterly expenditure, and examined the accounts to ascertain its cause, he was perpetually compelled to trace it to some considerable outlay consequent on the residence of his niece and her attendant under his roof. When the house failed to afford sufficient accommodation for the guests whom Lady Harriette now began to gather about her, and that she found herself driven to the necessity of engaging beds at the Ashton Arms in the adjacent village, this inconvenient arrangement was always accounted for, by the fact that, Miss Ella Ashton and her ayah occupied those which had formerly been available on similar occasions. No opportunity was lost of enforcing upon both the baronet and his visitors the sacrifices to which his unbounded affection for the orphan had subjected his family and household; while even the under-servants, who had in the first instance, merely declined to wait upon the Indian woman, ultimately refused their services to the young lady also, alleging that they were only engaged to "do the work of the family;" and that as Diana was supposed to wait upon her mistress, it was right and proper that she should do so. All these complaints and murmurs were carefully communicated to Lady Harriette in the presence of the baronet, by her obsequious ally Mrs. Brooks; and as they worried and unnerved him, he made no comment when his wife at length declared that she could not suffer her establishment to be disorganised by any such consideration, particularly as she was compelled to concede that the objection was by no means an unreasonable one; and that she should, in consequence of that conviction, authorise Mrs. Brooks to explain to the ayah the necessity of performing her duties to her charge without extraneous assistance.

When the decision of her ladyship was communicated to the Indian woman she tossed her arms in the air, and displayed her magnificent teeth in a smile of unmistakeable delight. She was at last to be the sole guardian of her nursling, when the latter was emancipated from the demands of the study and the drawing-room! This conviction was as a renewal of the past existence of devotion which had been the very breath of life to her; while to Ella it was scarcely less welcome; for although the child had learnt to love her gentle cousins and her adoring uncle, she had more than once writhed under the reluctant and almost disrespectful deportment of the servants who had hitherto been supposed to minister to her comfort. The two were to be alone together -- alone as they had been after the death of her last parent -- on the wide ocean which they had traversed to reach their present inhospitable home -- as they had been in the ruined hut in the wood -- alone in sorrow, in anxiety, and in suspense. They might yet hope for many happy hours in which to recal the past, and to speculate upon the future.

CHAPTER XIV.

MISTRESS AND PUPIL.

Months passed on with little apparent change in the family at Ashton Court, although they brought their slow but unceasing effect upon one individual of the domestic circle. With the exception of the school-room, and her own narrow and comfortless chamber, Ella found herself an intruder everywhere. If she chanced to be detected by Lady Harriette in any healthy and active amusement with her cousins, she was coldly desired to be less boisterous in her movements, as her wardrobe was too scanty to justify her in destroying her clothes when she had no means of replacing them; when she was urged by her uncle, (who still remained utterly unsuspicious that Lady Harriette had long ago forbidden all further attendance of the several masters upon his niece, as their charges still appeared duly registered in his quarterly accounts in order to keep him in ignorance of the fact;) to amuse him in her turn when the girls were assembled in the drawing-room, by exhibiting the progress which she had made in her music, her wily enemy, apprehensive that the deficiency of her victim in this respect -- for of that deficiency she had naturally no doubt -- would startle the baronet into inquiries which might prove unpleasant to herself, was never at a loss to discover some means by which the display might be prevented -- either the child was not accustomed to any instrument save that in the school-room; or Madame Despreaux was anxious that she should complete an unfinished task; or she had over-fatigued herself in the park, and had better not be called upon to use any further exertion that day; or she herself, on some frivolous pretext left the room, summoning Ella to accompany her, and then dismissed her coldly, remarking that she had better amuse herself in her own way, as Sir Hercules was unequal to contend against so much noise and excitement.

Deeply did the sensitive child feel these perpetual mortifications, but with a strength of character beyond her years she uttered no word of complaint, either to her indulgent governess or her idolizing nurse; and thus, neither the one nor the other suspected when she returned from the drawing-room to share their solitude, that her retreat was compulsory. The Frenchwoman, whose existence was one of almost unwearied monotony, was ever ready to hail the appearance of her favourite, and to devote the hours thus gained to the further development of her mind and character; while the ayah, towards whom her charge ever turned when some more bitter persecution than usual had rendered her unable to encounter even the kind smiles and encouraging praises of the governess, desired no higher joy on earth than to sit for hours upon her cushions, with the head of her beloved one on her knees, murmuring beneath her breath every epithet of endearment of which her native language was susceptible.

And so time wore on. Ella, while thanks to her untiring friend Madame Despreaux, she rapidly became a model of gracefulness and talent, had ceased to contend against her destiny. The shrinking shyness of the pampered child, suddenly transplanted from a home of luxury and indulgence to a strange and ungenial world where all was new and startling, and much thoroughly antagonistic to her nature, grew almost imperceptibly into a reserved and self-centred girl, inwardly defiant of everything around her, but submissive without even a murmur.

She began to comprehend her position; and who shall say how weary and hopeless a conviction was thus forced upon her? Her memories of the past were becoming fainter, it is true; and she still clung to her ayah with feelings of the fondest affection, and to the good Frenchwoman with earnest gratitude; but even in her young cousins she was conscious of a change which she could not explain even to herself; while she felt that her uncle, amid his occasional endearments and consistent kindness, was nevertheless unable or unwilling to replace to her what she had lost. Of Lady Harriette she never thought, save when some new severity for which she could conjecture no cause, forced the unwelcome memory upon her; and thus the present was wearisome and cheerless; while into the future she did not even attempt to look. She was only upon the threshold of life, but she was already subdued in spirit, and careless of the path before her.

"Courage, ma mignonne!" would Madame Despreaux occasionally exclaim, when she saw the lofty brow clouded, and the large eyes dimmed by an unspoken suffering, doubly touching at so tender an age; "there are bright days yet in store for you. Only do yourself justice, Ella, and you may command your own destiny. You have rare and brilliant talents, and ample opportunity for improving them to the utmost. Turn all your attention to this point; learn to suffice to yourself; and believe me when I tell you that there is no greater blessing on earth than a conviction of personal independence."

And when these kindly words were uttered, the orphan would listen with a sad and grateful smile, and strive to profit by the anxious counsels of her preceptress; but the human heart ever yearns for the sympathy which is withheld from it; and the character is moulded from circumstances, before the education of the world is fairly begun.

There was a change in Florence and Matilda, a great moral change; although neither the one nor the other betrayed it by a word. "Dear Ella" was still urged to join them in all their amusements and pursuits; but it was with an air of patronage which at once bewildered and estranged their timid cousin. Lady Harriette was a rare tactician! She never once desired her daughters to slight or to neglect the orphan, but she never became the subject of discourse during her absence that she did not allude to her in an accent of pity, as of one whose existence was already blighted; and impress upon them the propriety of being kind to the poor child who was indebted to their father for the very roof that sheltered her.

We all know how dearly the young love to indulge in a feeling of patronage, necessarily controlled by their elders; how they glory in becoming in their turn important, at least in their own eyes; and thus the two pure-hearted girls, unconscious of the injustice of which they were guilty in thus visiting upon their unfortunate cousin the disappointment that had befallen her, easily accustomed themselves to take the tone of their mother's mind, and to talk of "poor Ella" as an inferior. They still loved her, even more dearly perhaps than they were themselves aware of; but mingled with their affection there slowly and steadily grew up a feeling of superiority, which sadly marred the sacredness of the tie between them.

Florence, moreover, was rapidly ripening into that first stage of blooming girlhood when vanity begins to mingle with the calmer and less self-centred temperament of earlier years; and the extraordinary proficiency of her portionless cousin in the several accomplishments which they pursued together, gradually ceased to awaken her emulation, and began to excite her jealousy. Her, cheeks flushed and burnt as she was urged to imitate the untiring study and consequent success of her uncle's orphan; and the hot tears of mortification rose to her eyes as she listened to the covert rebuke. In vain did Ella, with all the zealousness of a young and eager heart, strive to retain the waning affections which she too plainly saw were fading from her; the beautiful Florence had taught herself to feel aggrieved by so unequal a rivalry; and the suffering child soon wept in silence over another heart lost to her.

Madame Despreaux, meanwhile, looked on, and understood all; but she was far too judicious to interfere, even by a word.

She saw whence the blow came, and she was jealous in her turn. The disposition of her favourite pupil was her constant study. "She may not be beautiful in the eyes of Lady Harriette;" she mentally whispered; "but she is amiable and high-hearted; she has within her all the elements of good. As she reflects upon what is taking place about her, she may doubt, and even suspect, but she cannot be convinced how deeply she is wronged. Let her live on in this happy ignorance while she can; the truth will be forced upon her only too soon; and meanwhile she is all that I have sought to make her; guileless, loving, and enduring. Her whole after-life will be perfected by the trials of her youth."

Fortunate was it for the orphan that she possessed so true and well-judging a friend.

The effect of her mother's comments upon the mind of the volatile Matilda was totally different from that which they produced on Florence. Naturally gay and laughter-loving, the comments of her instructors made little or no impression upon her; and the ready exclamation; "Oh, but you must see that I am not so clever as Ella;" was the reply to every expostulation. Unlike her sister, she gratefully accepted the offers of assistance volunteered by her cousin when any apparently insurmountable difficulty presented itself in her studies; but she was, at the same time, more incautious than Florence; and occasionally betrayed a consciousness of Ella's dependent position, which, had the orphan yet learnt to dwell upon such a consideration, must have awakened her to the truth.

And in this dreary way, month, as we have said, succeeded month, in the girl-life of our heroine; who, if she ceased to yearn for a brighter existence, had at least equally forgotten that another and a sharper pang could be added to her early suffering. That pang was, however, fated to be felt, and to be borne.

It has been hinted that it was a part of Lady Harriette Ashton's policy to augment the expenses of her household; and to imply wherever such an implication was practicable, that the increase of outlay was consequent upon the domestication of the orphan at Ashton Court. The expenses of Horace at Cambridge were considerable; for, secure of the support of his mother, the young man indulged himself in all the pleasures of his age; and wrote fluently of the absolute necessity of supporting the honour of his name. On the plea of soon introducing Florence into society, the grim old house once more opened its long-inhospitable portals, and a steady course of reciprocal visiting was resumed with the country families; consequently from one cause or other, the baronet, whose malady already rendered him disinclined to the convivialities which had been denied to him when he could have heartily participated in them, soon discovered, as he pored over his beloved account books, that the annual sum which he had been accustomed to economize in order to complete the marriage-portion of his daughters, was yearly absorbed in the expenses of his household.

To his periodical comments on this fact, Lady Harriette had one stereotyped reply; "You must remember that our family has increased. Sir Hercules;" and, as she knew must be the case, her husband was silenced.

Still the fact rankled in the anxious mind of the worthy old baronet. He felt satisfied that he held his life on a very precarious tenure; the Ashtons almost universally died young; and he was a martyr to gout, a disease which is proverbially said never to kill, and which probably never does so -- when its particular locality can be enforced; he had always indulged the hope that he should be able to bequeath the family property to his son, absolutely unincumbered, save by the jointure of his mother; and now, that he found himself unable even to complete the modest dowry of his daughters, he became irritable and uneasy.

Still, however, no idea of visiting his disappointment upon the orphan of his brother ever crossed his mind for an instant; and if he sometimes thought of her in connexion with this new annoyance, it was to marvel how a mere child -- for, like most elderly people, Sir Hercules forgot that children gradually grow into men and women -- how a mere child and her nurse could make a difference of several hundreds a-year in his income.

CHAPTER XV.

A NEW SORROW.

Such was the state of affairs at Ashton Court when the letter-bag was one morning brought into the breakfast-room by a servant, just as Sir Hercules, 'after a sharper paroxysm than usual, had fallen asleep in his chair, while Lady Harriette was engaged with the county paper. The opening of the door, cautiously as it was effected, sufficed to disturb the uneasy slumber of the baronet; and he was consequently in anything but a placid mood when his wife turned the key in the lock of the letter-bag, and proceeded to examine its contents.

"There is no letter from Horry to-day;" she said half angrily; "he really appears to forget that he has any interests or affections beyond the walls of his college. -- A packet for Madame Despreaux from Paris! That is something unusual." She rang the bell, and desired the servant who answered her summons to deliver it forthwith; "and here. Sir Hercules, is a letter for you. I think the hand is familiar to me."

"I trust that master Horace has not drawn another bill upon me already;" was the impatient retort.

"In that case I should probably not have recognised the writing;" observed Lady Harriette, still retaining the letter. "Shall I open it, and read it to you?"

"If you please."

"It is from Captain Burton; he may, perhaps, have received some intelligence, Sir Hercules;" she said with considerable excitement; "and should it be so, it is a very polite attention on his part."

"He has acted admirably throughout;" was the reply of the baronet; "but what says his letter?"

"May I venture to hope;" read Lady Harriette; "that Sir Hercules and Lady Ashton will pardon this intrusion, when I assure them that I venture upon it in the hope of serving both parties by the proposition which I am about to make, on the suggestion of a lady of great respectability and high station in Calcutta, who is, on my next voyage, to be one of my passengers to India? This lady, who has visited England for the purpose of placing her two eldest daughters at school, is about to return accompanied by the youngest, a little girl of about six years of age, from whom she has not had courage to part; and she is extremely anxious to procure a native ayah, well recommended, who, should she fulfil her duties satisfactorily while on board, she is willing to retain in her family after their arrival. As she applied to me for assistance on this point, it struck me that Miss Ella Ashton having now resided a considerable time in England, you might perhaps be glad of so eligible an opportunity of restoring her attendant to her native country. Should this prove to be the case, I shall be happy to forward to you the most undeniable references with regard to the lady under whose protection she will make the voyage; while I beg to assure you that no exertion shall be wanting on my part to ensure her comfort. In the event of your wishing to retain her in your establishment, I can only request that you will be good enough to pardon my interference; and to believe that I am always,

"Yours obediently,

"John Henry Burton."

"P.S. -- We shall clear out from the East India Docks on the fifteenth of the month, and sail by the early tide of the following morning."

"Why, this is absolutely providential!" exclaimed Lady Harriette triumphantly, as she refolded the letter; "Nothing could have happened better. Of course we can only be too happy to profit by so excellent an opportunity."

"But will the poor child consent to part from her nurse?" asked the baronet nervously.

"Consent!" echoed his wife; "Do you imagine for one moment, Sir Hercules, that I shall consult a mere girl upon such a subject? Is she not living under the roof of her nearest relatives? In the bosom of her father's family? What can she possibly desire more? She has friends of her own age; protectors of her own blood; and she would disgrace her name should she, under such circumstances, cling to a black woman! You should remember also that she is no longer a baby, and that an Indian nurse is a strange appendage to such an establishment as ours."

"Still, Diana is the last link between Ella and the land of her birth."

"I admit the pretty sentimentality of the consideration;" said Lady Harriette ironically; "but you appear to have forgotten, Sir Hercules, that your niece is too poor to indulge in sentiment. I need not now point out to you the immense increase of expense which her residence with us has occasioned; and I do not hesitate to say that I consider it my duty, both to myself and my children, to embrace so eligible an opportunity of decreasing it."

"Nevertheless, you may remember that my poor brother, in the letter written upon his death-bed -- "

"Pray, Sir Hercules;" exclaimed his wife pettishly; "do not advert to that letter. It has already sufficiently misled us; and I have occasionally suspected that Mr. Horace Ash-ton could not have been altogether sane when it was written, or he would never have indulged in a mystification concerning his property, which would have been absolutely dishonorable had he been in his right mind."

"Is it possible, Lady Harriette -- " commenced the baronet, in great agitation.

"Quite possible;" was the calm rejoinder; "and I think extremely charitable. However, we will not further discuss so very disagreeable a subject. I will merely place the present position of your niece in a common-sense point of view. Have your own daughters -- the grandchildren of the Earl of Disborough -- each their personal attendant? And are we called upon to concede to Miss Ella Ashton an indulgence which we deny to them? The mere idea of such an arrangement is preposterous! And when you come to reflect calmly on the subject, you cannot fail to admit it."

"Well, perhaps what you say is reasonable and right;" was the reluctant reply. "But still we must not overlook the fact that this poor woman was Ella's earliest friend; and that the parting will be a very painful one to both."

"I am sorry for it;" said Lady Harriette coldly; "but I confess that I see no remedy; and therefore, Sir Hercules, if you do not feel well enough to reply to Captain Burton's letter, I will do so myself without loss of time."

"Do you not think, my dear;" asked the old gentleman; "that before you proceed any further, you had better communicate its receipt to the parties more immediately concerned? Should the departure of her old friend produce a bad effect upon the health and spirits of the poor child, I -- "

"Make yourself quite easy on the subject, Sir Hercules;" said his wife, as she seated herself at her writing-table; "it is worse than useless to get up two scenes where one will suffice; and consequently it will be more kind to say nothing whatever of the business to your niece until she can be told that all is definitively arranged."

The baronet sank back in his chair with a sigh, while Lady Harriette calmly and fastidiously selected a pen from the tray beside her; and, after having re-perused the letter of Captain Burton, proceeded in the most business-like manner to express how deeply both Sir Hercules and herself were indebted to him for his considerate kindness; and how gladly they should avail themselves of so excellent an opportunity of restoring the poor exiled ayah to a home for which she had been long pining, now they had convinced themselves that her services were no longer indispensable, or indeed even essential, to their dear niece.

CHAPTER XVI.

A PARTING.

It would be worse than idle to attempt a description of the feelings of Ella and her nurse when they were abruptly informed by Lady Harriette herself of the intended and almost immediate departure of Diana. The possibility of such a separation had never occurred to either; and the effect of the announcement was consequently terrible to both. The orphan only cowered down, and burying her face in her hands, remained silent and motionless as though she had suddenly been turned to stone; but the despair and resentment of the Indian woman were frightful; and Lady Harriette rushed from the room, terrified at the storm which she had so recklessly raised. It was, however, too late to rescind her resolution; every arrangement had been completed with Captain Burton; and the new employer of the unhappy ayah was already urging her arrival in London.

During the three days which preceded her departure, the heartbroken and faithful creature resolutely refused to take any nourishment; and, when earnestly intreated by her equally wretched nursling not to persist in so dangerous a trial of her strength, she only grasped her throat, and replied with a loathing gesture: "I cannot; I cannot; the food is hers, and it would choke me!"

At length the fatal moment came. Ella, who had not uttered one word of expostulation or entreaty, tore herself from the clinging arms of the almost frantic Indian woman, and shut herself up in her own room, where she was found by the anxious Madame Despreaux lying on the floor in a state of insensibility, and tenderly placed upon her bed; thus she remained for upwards of an hour, unconscious of the bitter trial through which she had just passed; and, on recovering her perception, she found herself bathed in the tears of the gentle governess who was watching over her.

"Take comfort, my poor child;" was murmured tenderly in her ear; "the pang has been a sharp one, and might perhaps have been spared; but it is over now, and you have still my heart to lean upon. Remember too, Ella, that you are now more mine than ever -- my darling girl -- my favorite pupil -- even, if you will, my adopted daughter. I too, have little left in the world to love except yourself; let us then be everything to each other, and life may have some bright days in store for us yet. Meanwhile, Ella, your uncle and cousins are kind and affectionate; do not close your poor wounded heart against them, even although the influence of Miladi may overpower their better sympathies."

"I make no complaint, madame;" was the calm and tearless reply; "I have made none. When the dying wishes of my poor father were disregarded, I had no faith in my own entreaties. You say well; you are now indeed all in all to me; and the love of a grateful heart, which will henceforth form a portion of my existence, is all that I have to offer in return; but that shall never fail you."

"I feel it; I know it, Ella;" sobbed the governess; "and now, my dear child, promise me that you will not resent the -- yes, I must say it, although it is wrong of me to do so -- the cruelty of Lady Harriette; and that you will be resigned until you can once more become happy."

"I will do all and everything you wish, my kind friend and comforter;" said the poor girl, as she threw her arms about the neck of the Frenchwoman; "It is my duty to resign myself to the will of Lady Harriette, whatever that will may be; for has she not taught me to know and feel that I am a beggar, dependent upon her charity almost for my daily bread? What right can I therefore have to rebel? Do I shed a tear? Do I utter a sigh?"

"I wish from my very heart that you did both, my poor lamb;" replied Madame Despreaux; "This calmness of yours is so unnatural that it frightens me."

"It need not;" said the orphan with a smile that was sadder than a groan; "I have borne much, and you shall see that I can bear still more. I am young in years, madame, but I am already old in experience; and I am quite aware of the intention of Lady Harriette in thus separating me from the faithful nurse to whose affection I was confided by my father on his death-bed."

"What can you mean, my child?"

"Perhaps I am wrong to explain my meaning even to you, my kind friend;" said the orphan; "and yet, into what heart save your own can I now pour out my sorrows? Bear with me then, if I am wrong in expressing to you my conviction that the enforced departure of my poor Diana was intended to throw me entirely into the dependence of my uncle's wife. Lady Harriette is not aware that in yourself I have still a warm and loving friend -- "

"But Sir Hercules and your cousins?" -- remonstrated Madame Despreaux.

"What can the affection of either Sir Hercules or my cousins effect in my favor?" asked Ella with the cold calm of hopelessness; "Willing as they might be to do so, they are powerless before the will of Lady Harriette. No; believe me it is far better that I should at once look my actual position boldly in the face, and resign myself to a destiny against which it is vain to struggle."

"Ella, Ella, for your own sake you must not give way to such feelings."

"Do not mistake me;" said the orphan; "I will give you no cause for complaint; No, my beloved and generous friend, whatever may be the will of Lady Harriette, I shall never oppose it."

"But I should like to see you yield that obedience in a better spirit;" persisted Madame Despreaux.

"I will do my best; indeed I will;" murmured the poor girl, as she suffered her weary head to fall back upon the pillow; "but to-day I am heartsore and bewildered. I can scarcely persuade myself that my dear loving Diana has really been taken from me -- Perhaps even yet;" she added after a pause, once more raising herself eagerly to a sitting posture, and endeavouring to trace the reflection of her own hope in the anxious face which was bending over her; "perhaps even yet Lady Harriette may relent -- perhaps my kind uncle; but no, no;" she concluded with a sigh, as she felt how improbable it was that Lady Harriette Ashton should ever relent in a case which involved her own views and interests; "No, no; we shall meet no more in this world, my poor Diana."

Alarmed by the extreme mental suffering of the orphan, Madame Despreaux hastened to her room, whence she returned in a few minutes with a soothing draught, which she easily prevailed on her to swallow, for Ella was passive in her hands; and when she had convinced herself that the narcotic had produced its effect, she quietly withdrew, and turning the key in the lock, she carried it away with her in order to prevent all intrusion on the slumber of the unhappy girl.

Meanwhile another scene even more painful had taken place in the morning-room of Lady Harriette. It had been impossible to send the Indian woman from the house without a parting interview with the baronet; a conviction which caused considerable anxiety to his wife; who, after the exhibition of violence on the part of the ayah to which she had been a witness in the apartment of Ella, trembled at the effect of a similar outbreak in the presence of Sir Hercules.

It was, in truth, most annoying that after having so far carried her point, and almost persuaded him that nothing could be more simple or proper than the arrangement she had made, she still ran the risk of seeing it overthrown by the weakness of the baronet, who would, as she well knew, be unable to withstand the tears and entreaties of his niece and her attendant.

Great therefore was her satisfaction on finding that Ella made no attempt to see her uncle, or to oppose the departure of Diana; and somewhat reassured by her non-appearance, she at length sent to desire that the ayah should be directed to take leave of Sir Hercules before she commenced her journey.

Her summons was at once obeyed, and in a few instants the Indian woman entered the room, and slowly made the way to the chair of the baronet.

"I fear, my good creature;" he said kindly, as he extended his hand towards her, which she slightly touched, and immediately relinquished; "that you will be sorry to leave us."

"Sahib, no;" was the cold stern reply; "Dia is ready."

"I am glad to hear it;" said Sir Hercules with considerable astonishment; "very glad; for I confess that I had apprehended -- "

"You see that I understood the real merits of the case better than yourself;" hastily interposed his wife, who was anxious to prevent all explanation; "What could be more natural than that Diana, after an absence of so many years from her own country, should be delighted to return to it, particularly when her young mistress no longer required her attendance, and that she could leave her with a quiet heart in her natural home? Like Sir Hercules, I am very glad to find, Diana, that you do not wish to remain in England."

Withering was the glance of contemptuous scorn with which the Indian woman replied to this address; "It is well said;" she muttered huskily: "picanninny lost, all lost. Dia's heart dead, all dead."

"Ah, yes, I understand;" again broke in the lady; "now that your parting with the dear child is over, you have no other tie to England. And all has been arranged most pleasantly and comfortably, Diana. Sir Hercules and myself have been careful that nothing shall be wanting, either during your voyage, or after your arrival in Calcutta, to make you perfectly happy."

"Dia can work;" was the sullen rejoinder. "No doubt, no doubt:" smiled Lady Harriette with a gracious and condescending gesture; "but still -- "

"Still, my excellent Diana;" interposed the baronet in his turn; "both her ladyship and myself feel that we owe you a deep debt of gratitude for your faithful and affectionate care of my poor brother's child; and we are anxious to prove that we are not unmindful of it. In this purse -- "

"Sahib;" said the ayah haughtily, as she stepped back a pace or 'two, and folded her arms upon her breast; "Dia a freewoman -- no buy, no sell. Give life, breath, blood, for piccaninny -- no pay for heart-love."

"You are an extraordinary woman;" said Sir Hercules; "but you must not be suffered to injure your own interests. You will oblige Lady Harriette -- "

"Her bread choke -- her gold burn -- " was the indignant exclamation of the Indian, shaking her garments as if to fling from her some noxious reptile; "let Dia go -- her time is come."

"She is right, my dear Sir Hercules;" said his wife; "let her go; it is useless to detain her longer."

The baronet passed his hand across his brow, and sank back heavily in his chair; the departure of the ayah seemed to him like the rending away of another link between himself and his dead brother; and for a moment he was overpowered by the thronging memories which rushed upon him. Lady Harriette was agitated by other and less amiable emotions; while the Indian woman stood before them apparently as cold and as impassive as marble; the fire-flood burnt fiercely at her heart, but not a pulse visibly quivered.

"Surely you will not refuse my last gift, Diana;"said the baronet at length, as he again held the purse towards her; "It is not intended to pay you for services which no gold could buy, but as a proof of my regard."

The ayah hesitated for an instant, and then with a low salaam, she extended her hand, deliberately emptied the money upon the table, and thrust the empty purse into her bosom; then, without even a glance towards Lady Harriette, she repeated her obeisance to Sir Hercules, and hastily strode from the room without further leave-taking.

In a few minutes the carriage which was to convey her to the post town, drove off; and thus the devoted nurse of the orphan girl quitted Ashton Court, carrying away with her, after many years of faithful service, only a lock of her darling's hair, an empty purse, and the fragments of her broken bangles.

What passed between Ella and the ayah ere they parted was never divulged; and not even to Madame Despreaux did the desolate girl confide the means by which she had calmed the frantic rage of the Indian woman into a sullen and almost silent despair.

CHAPTER XVII.

A DEATH.

The years which had elapsed since the arrival of Sir Hercules Ashton's niece in England had, as we have already said, produced a marked change in the appearance of the once plain and ungainly child; to whom even her anticipated heirship could scarcely for a time reconcile the fastidiousness of Lady Harriette. Nature appeared, however, although tardily, resolved to revenge her upon Fortune; and her face and form began to give promise of a strange and unusual, but still wondrous beauty. She was no longer the timid shrinking little creature who appeared to fear an enemy in all who approached her; and still less, after the departure of the ayah, was she the mild but cheerful-hearted girl who had been the life of the schoolroom, and the idol of her instructress. Calm and self-centred, she performed all the duties required of her carefully and zealously; but the quick eye of Madame Despreaux soon detected that what had hitherto been pursued as a delight had degenerated into a mere task; joyless and without attraction. Even her extraordinary musical talents, of which she had once been innocently vain, no longer appeared to afford her the slightest gratification, although she still meekly and obediently followed up their development. As her slight and elastic figure bent over the harp, it was with a nervelessness of attitude painful to witness in one so young; and not even the praises of her master could now bring a light to her large, deep, lustrous eyes, or a smile to her finely-moulded lips. Her voice was no longer heard out-carolling the lark in strength and sweetness; for although she still sang, there was a mournfulness of tone and a depth of intonation in her voice, that fell upon the heart like the echo of some unforgotten wail of sorrow, and which saddened the spirit of the anxious governess. Her brilliant pupil was no longer the formidable rival who had so lately threatened to cast the less solid acquirements of her more happy cousins into the shade; and her own regret at this melancholy change was shared by those who had, like herself, exulted in the results of their teaching. Trusting, however, to time and youth, those two marvellous magicians! they persevered, still unsuspected by Lady Harriette; who, as she had not deemed it expedient to confide to her daughters that their cousin was no longer to enjoy the same advantages as themselves, and had gradually but effectually banished the orphan from the instrument in the morning-room, was -- as a natural consequence -- utterly ignorant of the extent of her progress; while of her other less conspicuous accomplishments, she knew absolutely nothing.

Sir Hercules who, after his one great effort in behalf of his niece, had quietly subsided into his usual habit of non-interference with his wife's will; and felt satisfied that the orphan girl was happy beneath his roof, contented himself by watching her daily-increasing beauty and gracefulness; while her gentleness of character, her noiseless and gliding step, and her growing likeness to his dead brother, delighted him. The presence of Ella beside his gouty chair never either disturbed or excited him; while the more buoyant and unrestrained spirits of his own lighthearted girls occasionally made him nervous for his suffering limb. A bound across the floor, or a sudden peal of ringing laughter, were torture to him; and Ella neither bounded nor laughed. It was she who smoothed his cushions; moved the swollen and throbbing leg into an easier position; and read to him with unwearied patience when he had not sufficient energy to perform the office for himself.

It was singular that, as if by a tacit understanding, the subject of Diana's departure was never once mooted between them; or even her name pronounced. To the orphan the subject was always a painful one; while the baronet shrank, although he could not have explained wherefore, from broaching it. As his increasing infirmities confined him for weeks together to the house, and as Lady Harriette declared that constant fresh air and change were essential to her health, and that she could not leave Sir Hercules to the care of servants, it soon became understood that during her drives and visits in the neighbourhood, (in all which she was accompanied by her daughters,) Sir Hercules was to be watched over and tended by Ella, who gladly undertook so congenial an office; snatching her own hours of exercise after the return of the carriage-party, in the park and grounds, with Madame Despreaux as her constant companion. And if not absokitely happy, still most welcome hours they were to the orphan, who clung to her wise and gentle friend with childlike confidence and love; as well as to the warm-hearted Frenchwoman, to whom she was rapidly becoming the first object in life.

None, therefore, beyond the boundaries of Ashton Court, even guessed the change which time had wrought in the extraordinarily-gifted girl who had formerly been to them simply an object of ridicule or avoidance. That Florence and Matilda had from blooming children grown into all the dazzling beauty of early womanhood, the county families had every opportunity of convincing themselves; for Lady Harriette, if not the fondest mother in the world to her daughters, was nevertheless sufficiently vain of their personal advantages to overlook, or to disregard the fact, that they betrayed by their presence the fast-coming failure of her own attractions. She was, moreover, enabled by securing the constant companionship of her children, to escape that of Ella; as well as to compel her to descend without a word of harshness, or an appearance of design, into the subordinate position in the family which she had long mentally assigned to her.

Had she, however, declared it to be her pleasure that the orphan should thenceforward regard herself only as an inferior, and assume the tone and manner befitting her onerous station, she would have met with no opposition from Ella, who had become utterly careless of the future. To her the present was everything; and as at the close of each succeeding day she laid her weary head upon her cheerless pillow, she did so with a deep feeling of thankfulness, ill-suited to her years, that another night was come.

Thus were things situated when intelligence reached Lady Harriette Ashton of the death of her only brother Lord Compton, who had, as she frequently mentioned to her husband, been from his birth of so frail and delicate a constitution that no hope of his enjoying a long life had ever been entertained by his family; yet still his death, before he had completed his thirtieth year, was an event that they had certainly not anticipated; and which they were compelled to attribute to the fact that when the selfish extravagance of his father left him no alternative but to enter the army, and to encounter the fatigues and vicissitudes of a soldier's career, he had fallen a victim to over-exertion and antagonistic climates.

To say that Lady Harriette did not mourn over his untimely fate, would be to speak untruthfully; but her grief was so diluted by complaints of the unbecomingness of mourning, and the necessity of absolute seclusion, that it may fairly be presumed her tears were not very bitter; while, moreover, there blended with her murmurs the pleasant reflection that her beloved and idolized Horace was one step nearer to a peerage.

There is always consolation for the worldly in any bereavement which entails a personal benefit.

To the orphan alone the fatal event brought no change, either of duty or of feeling. As she had long been exiled from the drawing-room when there were visitors staying in the house, so she was suffered to absent herself when the family were alone; although Sir Hercules occasionally expressed his astonishment that his little nurse, as he proudly called her, should never be near him save when the rest of the party were absent.

"She was a half-savage child, and she has become a moody girl;" would Lady Harriette reply on these occasions; "She is tractable enough with you, because she is aware that I would not suffer her to be otherwise; but I am afraid, to be candid with you, Sir Hercules, that she is jealous of her cousins; which, after all that we have done for her, is a most unamiable feeling. However, the best thing that we can now do is to appear not to remark her weakness, and perhaps as she grows older she will grow wiser."

"But what can there be to excite her jealousy?" asked the baronet uneasily; "she is now as handsome as either of our own girls, although in a totally different style. You may remember, my dear, that you yourself first drew my attention to the fact; while she has had equal advantages in every way, and therefore is, or ought to be, equally accomplished. I cannot see, therefore, what possible cause there can be for any jealousy among them."

"Oh, do not mistake me. Sir Hercules;" indignantly exclaimed his wife; "neither Florence nor Matilda, young as they are, would condescend to such littleness. I was speaking only of your niece; who is, poor thing, without any exception, the most sullen and uninteresting girl with whom I ever came into contact."

"It is very extraordinary!" said the puzzled baronet; "If I had been asked my opinion on the subject, I should have pronounced a totally opposite verdict; for I confess that to me Ella appears all that is gentle, affectionate, and good."

"No doubt;" was the curt rejoinder; "The result will, however, prove which of us is right."

The next insult to which the orphan was subjected was the refusal of Lady Harriette to allow her to put on mourning, although all the household had assumed the deepest sables; on the pretext that it would be inconsistent for the daughter of Mr. Horace Ashton to appear in black when she had not the slightest connection with the Disborough family.

"I thought, Miladi;" ventured the governess, when she was informed of this extraordinary resolution by Lady Harriette herself; "that your ladyship might perhaps have preferred to see her dressed like her cousins, particularly as her wardrobe is beginning to require renewal."

"Indeed!" was the reply; "I should have imagined that such could not have been the case for years, after the trouble and incumbrance to which we were subjected on her arrival by the amount of her luggage. However, I am obliged to you, Madame, for having drawn my attention to the fact; and as my daughters cannot lay aside their mourning under a twelvemonth, and are growing very rapidly, I will give directions that the dresses which they now have in wear shall be transferred to Miss Ella Ashton. Indeed it would be impossible to make a better arrangement; as, if at the end of the year they should not have actually outgrown them, still they will have outgrown their fashion; and they have now reached an age when they can no longer with propriety appear as mere school-girls; and since I am indebted to you for the hint, my dear Madame Despreaux, you will perhaps still further oblige me by superintending the necessary alterations, with, of course, a due attention to economy, for really it appears to me that the young lady must have been very careless to require any addition to her wardrobe so soon."

"Miladi probably forgets;" said the Frenchwoman, while a blush of honest indignation burnt on her cheek; "that every thing belonging to Miss Ella was removed except what had actually been made up for her."

"I certainly recollect nothing of the matter;" was the cold rejoinder; "save that the whole affair was a gross absurdity. Sir Hercules and myself naturally desire that while his niece continues to be a member of our family, she should do us no disgrace; and for that risk I have, as you see, provided. There will be abundant material for all her wants by adopting the means I have mentioned; and I am glad that so good an opportunity of supplying them has occurred."

All reply was, of course, impossible; and Madame Despreaux succeeded in controlling the tears of mortification and disgust which were flooding her heart until Lady Harriette had left the room; but she was no sooner alone than she suffered them to flow unimpeded. That the child of her adoption -- the gentle and unoffending girl who would, had she been permitted to do so, have created an atmosphere of love about her -- should be so recklessly injured and taught to feel her dependence -- that Ella, born to affluence and nursed in luxury, should be condemned to receive, as an act of reluctant charity, the cast-off clothes of her more happy cousins -- stung her to the quick; and as her eye fell upon the mourning-dress which had been presented to her by her patroness with a request that she would do her the favour to wear it as a mark of respect for the Disborough family, she fairly bounded upon her chair. The insult to the orphan was keenly calculated and complete. Even in the eyes of the very servants she must become the pariah of the establishment by this studied exclusion from the privilege of those about her; and Madame Despreaux dreaded the effect of such a conviction on the sensitive nature of her beloved pupil. This last pang she might, however, have spared herself, for Ella heard the determination of Lady Harriette as calmly as though she had no personal interest in the matter.

"At my present age;" she said, with perfect composure; "it would have broken my heart had I lost my dear papa, and that proper respect was not paid to his memory; but as regards myself I have no pride to wound. It matters little that I am made a degree more conscious than before that I am regarded as a burthen rather than a relative. You will not love me the less, my best friend; and you only will care to remember that the house in which I am sheltered has long ceased to be a home to me."

"Ella!" exclaimed the governess, as she threw her arms about her neck: "I am weary of this life. Let us go and make a home elsewhere."

The orphan shook her head.

"Poor papa sent me here;" she said sadly; "and do you know, Madame, that I sometimes think my uncle would not be so happy without me."

"You are right, my child; quite right;" said the Frenchwoman; "and I was very weak to give way to my indignation as I have done. We will learn to make our own happiness, Ella, and to look forward with confidence to the future."

It was an admirable resolution, and each acted upon it to the extent of her power; but still they were neither happy nor hopeful. Madame Despreaux resented every injustice offered to the orphan more deeply than she would have done had it been inflicted on herself; while the thoughtful and long-suffering girl restrained her feelings in order to spare those of her friend, until her self-control almost misled even the jealous eyes that watched over her so tenderly.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A NEW TRIAL.

The result of the persevering management of Lady Harriette may be readily guessed. By slow and imperceptible degrees the affections of her daughters were weaned, if not entirely withdrawn, from their cousin; and when a couple of years subsequently, they were almost emancipated from the thraldom of the schoolroom, the estrangement became necessarily greater; while Sir Hercules, whom his almost unremitted sufferings rendered more and more irritable and exacting, ceasing to remember that a sick room was not the most genial atmosphere for a young and delicate girl, no longer urged Ella to leave him when he could have dispensed with her gentle services; and consequently nearly every hour which was not devoted to her studies was passed beside him, and occupied in administering to his comfort and amusement.

The mourning of the family had been laid aside at the appointed period; but not until it had long exhausted the philosophy of Lady Harriette, who lost no time in redeeming the dreary past by rushing into society with a zest which she had never heretofore displayed. Her own toilette and those of her daughters were renewed in a style of elegance and fashion which charmed as much as it astonished the delighted girls; while the discarded sables were transferred, as a mere matter of course, to the orphan.

It was fortunate for the poor girl that she had readily flung off her habits of helplessness, and learned to suffice to herself; for it is needless to insist upon the fact that long ere Ella had reached this deeper depth of mortification and insult, the servants had began to assume towards her, gentle and unexacting as she was, an air and manner which was intended to imply that she was no longer in a position to issue orders, or themselves prepared to obey them.

The orphan bowed her head meekly before the storm, with a power of endurance which caused every nerve of the more volatile Madame Despreaux to quiver with astonishment. Whence had this gifted, beautiful, and sensitive girl derived the force of character which enabled her to pursue her path without heeding, or even appearing to remark, the thorns and briars with which it was wantonly beset? What was to be the end of the mean and narrow-hearted persecutions by which she was overwhelmed, and by which she might ultimately be rendered desperate? The anxious Frenchwoman shuddered as she asked herself these questions.

Had the resignation of Ella grown out of constitutional supineness, or moral subserviency, the riddle had needed no sphinx to solve it; but as the governess reflected on the proud, self-sufficing nature of the orphan; her extraordinary control over her feelings and impulses; the wonderful powers of her mind; and her deep sympathy in the joys and sorrows of others, she almost shuddered.

"She can never bear on to the end!" she murmured to herself; "The dark day must come, and I shall lose my darling -- but how! alas! alas! who shall say?"

The visits of Horace to his home had, since his entry at Cambridge, been few and short. The death of her brother had effected a great change in the feelings of Lady Harriette towards her son; and maternal idolatry had given place to womanly ambition. Sir Hercules no longer had cause to complain of the excess of expenditure which had, for several preceding years been attributed as we have seen, to the domestication of his niece at Ashton Court, although never since their marriage had his wife so constantly filled the house with guests. It was of course only at rare intervals that the baronet could join the dinner-party, or even make his appearance in the drawing-room; but as it was impossible to anticipate the precise day and hour when he would be in the full grasp of his hereditary enemy, no one -- of the invited -- ventured to comment upon the fact that their gracious and graceful hostess should have suddenly become accessible to all the visitable portion of the county, just as her once jovial and freehearted husband had lost all zest for society, or at least all power of enjoying it.

A few mammas with daughters of their own to marry, and a few money-loving squires with pedigrees as long as their acres, and bashful, fox-hunting sons to establish in life, looked wise, and nodded their sapient heads; the first with somewhat of misgiving as regarded their own speculations; and the last with a grave and anxious conviction that the noble blood transmitted from Lady Harriette Ashton to her daughters, would scarcely serve to swell their very moderate fortunes into an amount equivalent to the value of the timber upon the estate of Bramble Park, or the chalk quarries of Stone Manor.

Still, all went on gaily and pleasantly at Ashton Court. Florence and Matilda, somewhat precociously perhaps introduced into society, were the charm and ornament of every circle in which they were permitted to appear by their cautious and watchful mother; who at once perceived that they had produced a great sensation in the county. Overwhelmed by her matronly anxiety and indulgence, the two girls naturally thought of little save gaiety; and if they did once or twice venture to wonder that "little Ella" was not occasionally allowed to make her appearance in the gay throng which crowded their reception-rooms, they were soon silenced by the intimation that she was not only too young to be introduced, but that her presence and care were essential to the comfort of her uncle; while, in her unfortunate situation, it could only give her false ideas were she to be brought into contact with persons with whom she could not ultimately hope to associate. Poor thing! No one could be more sorry for her than Lady Harriette herself -- at least she said so -- It was a thousand pities that she was not the heiress they once believed her to be; but, under existing circumstances, the responsibility was so great that every precaution must be taken to guard her from false impressions and from fallacious hopes.

No word of unkindness -- no bitter insinuations -- not one; Lady Harriette was all suavity and kindness, as she thus impressed upon her daughters their social superiority over their orphan cousin.

Many of the neighbouring families who had, some half-dozen years previously, heard the lady of Ashton Court animadvert with no slight sarcasm on the extreme impropriety of forcing young girls into the world when they should still have been in the schoolroom, could not refrain from expressing their surprise at the early emancipation of Florence and Matilda; for they were necessarily ignorant of the cause which had impelled Lady Harriette to suffer her practice to differ so widely from her theory. They were not in the secret of the anticipated peerage of her son, and her own anxiety that on his accession to the title, he should not be burthened, in the event of his father's decease, with two unmarried and slenderly portioned sisters. It was curious that in the strength of her worldliness she never for a moment permitted her natural feelings to interfere with her prudential schemes; but coolly calculated casualties with as great a nicety as though the lives of those nearest, even if not altogether dearest to her, were not involved in their ultimate issue. She was accused of blind and imprudent compliance with the entreaties of her daughters; and even although her prudence was doubted, every one gave her full credit for her maternal affection. The world is so keen-sighted in its own esteem, that it would be a pity nine times out of ten to convict it of self-deceit.

And so the beautiful Miss Ashtons sang, and danced, and flirted unchidden; and bore their sixteen and seventeen years so gracefully, that ere long they were the acknowledged belles of the county. Their several masters were dismissed; and Madame Despreaux could not disguise from herself that even her presence in the establishment was becoming unpalatable to its mistress. Still, for Ella's sake, she affected not to remark the chilling tones, or the occasionally slighting inferences of Lady Harriette. She dreaded for the orphan the mental and moral isolation which must follow her own departure; and with an indignant heart, she resolved to bear these covert insults rather than expose her beloved pupil to sufferings which might prove beyond her strength.

She was, however, no match for her antagonist; and accordingly one morning, when a sharper attack of gout than usual had rendered poor Sir Hercules so helpless and irritable that he would not dispense for an instant with the attendance of his niece; and her two cousins, wearied with the dissipation of a hunt-ball which had taken place on the previous evening, were still sleeping off their fatigue. Lady Harriette, greatly to the surprise, and still more to the annoyance, of Madame Despreaux, entered the schoolroom with her most stately step. As she had not so honoured it for several weeks, the Frenchwoman instantly comprehended that her visit boded no good to Ella; and she was right.

The education of her own children terminated, Lady Harriette decided that the services of an expensive French governess ought, as a matter of prudence, to be dispensed with; but still she had acted with her usual policy, and had forborne to announce this decision to the admirable woman who had devoted all her energies to the full and conscientious discharge of her arduous duties for ten long years beneath her roof, and had loved her pupils with almost a mother's fondness, until she was able also to inform her in accents of the most condescending patronage, that she had secured for her a most eligible situation in the family of the Dowager-Countess of Bramble-dyke, whose five daughters, varying from ten years of age to eighteen, were to be confided to her care; and whose education having unfortunately, been hitherto greatly neglected owing to the weak health of their mother, she was required to complete. It was with a smile as calm and as bland as her own, that Madame Despreaux when she had succeeded in mastering her emotion, thanked her considerate patroness for the great kindness which she had evinced in obtaining for her so eligible an offer; declaring, however, at the same time her utter inability to accept it.

"When I leave you, Miladi;" she said, and in despite of all her efforts the large tears rose to her eyes; "my task is ended, and I shall live only for myself. For ten years this has been my home; I cannot now make another under a stranger's roof. I thank you, but -- "

"Oh, pray do not say another word, my dear madame;" interposed Lady Harriette; "you are of course the mistress of your own destiny, and I can with great truth assure you that Sir Hercules and myself will ever remain your firm and sincere friends; while the girls will never, I am quite convinced, forget how deeply they are indebted to you for your unceasing care and kindness; and I know that it will afford you pleasure to be assured that you have won golden opinions throughout the county by the admirable manner in which you have completed their education."

"And your niece, Miladi;" said the Frenchwoman, not even affecting to acknowledge the tardy compliment; "And Ella?"

"Oh, Mademoiselle Sophie will superintend her studies for the future, should I consider it necessary for her to pursue them further;" was the cold reply.

"Mademoiselle Sophie! The femme-de-chambre of Miladi!" exclaimed Madame Despreaux, startled out of her assumed composure; "Miladi jests. I must have done my duty but ill in her family if a soubrette can improve upon my teaching."

"You are right;" said Lady Harriette, as she prepared to leave the room; "As you say, madame, after several years passed under your care, Miss Ella Ashton can need no further instruction; and thus, as you will perceive, I have no pretext for urging your longer residence beneath my roof; where, however, I am delighted to repeat that your great and acknowledged merits are appreciated as they deserve to be."

Madame Despreaux coldly touched the hand which was extended to her; and after a few more empty words of compliment and courtesy Lady Harriette withdrew, well pleased to have terminated an interview which could not fail to prove unpleasant to both parties.

"Poor Ella! Poor darling!" sobbed out the excited Frenchwoman, as she threw herself into a chair; "I must kneel and pray for you, for I dare not think."

END OF VOL. I