CHAPTER I.WHO'S WHO?IT was the pleasant spring time, and the country never wore a more cheerful, smiling look. Holybourne, a little village in Oxfordshire, somewhat behind the age, and never very lively at any time, was uncommonly jovial. Mrs. Somerville, the wife of the principal farmer and churchwarden, who took a far greater interest both in agricultural and ecclesiastical matters than her lord, had, in his absence from home, sanctioned the ringing of the church bells, which burst at this very moment into a merry peal. The advent of a new rector was an event of considerable importance to the Church in general, and to the village of Holybourne in particular. Various were the surmises as to what the new rector looked like, and various were the hopes expressed that the new parson might be as remarkable for the good qualities of his heart as of his head. The old parson had been a somewhat stern and silent man, who had written several prosy works, which in bygone times would have procured him a bishopric, or at all events a deanery. The relations which existed between him and his parishioners had never been of a very close or cordial character. His death was evidently a happy release for all parties concerned; matters might be worse, but there was evidently much room for improvement.And when the new rector came, the very first glance at his honest, open, manly countenance was like sunshine bursting through the thick clouds and dreariness which had accumulated for years, infecting everybody, even the dullest, heaviest, and sulkiest with fresh mirth and spirits. Mr. Haythorne had a kind word for everybody, and the masonic grip of his hand, for he shook hands with a will, put you at once at your ease, and made you feel just as if the stranger was your friend, and you had actually known him for years."Hang me if I don't take a fancy to our new parson!" quoth young Bill Newman, the blacksmith, whose forge towards sundown, when the toil of the day was over, was the general resort of every gossiper."What dy'e say," replied Robert Miles, the carpenter, demurely, "to giving him a tune? There's our new brass arisin', and a little practice wouldn't be out of the way neither. Certainly, Dick, the trombone, ain't no genius, and never will learn to keep time if he lives as old as Methuselah, for it ain't in him, nor in any of his family; but the new parson, I reckon, will take the will for the deed, and won't expect us to beat the band of the Life Guards, when us working men haven't the same opportunities, sure-ly.""In coarse -- not -- man," answered Bill between each merry ring of the hammer which was driving the iron sparks of a red-hot shoe upon the anvil far and wide. "And pr'haps, if we give Dick a fair start, and set him on five or six bars ahead, he mayn't be so very far behindhand when we wind up."The scheme meditated upon in the forge was duly arranged, and six stalwart muscular lads crept after dusk into the rectory garden, through the arched ivy-covered gateway, and made their way, without discovery (for this was intended to be a very pleasant surprise), to the bow-window of the drawing-room at the back of the old grey stone rectory. Considering the little experience the musicians possessed, and the necessity which existed, as they had no regular instructor, of trusting almost entirely to their ear, they got along famously, all at least but Dick, who received sundry sly kicks, which rather retarded than facilitated his progress.It was evident that the compliment which was paid to the parson was taken in a friendly way, for the shutters of one of the windows were actually opened, and the blind was drawn up."And to whom am I indebted for this music?" asked Mr. Haythorne, who had opened the window when the piece had come to an end."We be the new brass band what is arisin'," answered Bill Newman, touching his cap respectfully."Come, you must let me have your names to-morrow," said the rector, "and in the meantime let me thank you for the friendly greeting, and here, as a proof, is five shillings to repay you in part for your trouble.""Thankee, sir!" replied all simultaneously; "but if you're content, so be we, and if you want us to take it, we'd as lief that you would give it to the missionaries.""Very well," replied Mr. Haythorne, with undisguised pleasure, "it shall be as you wish," and bidding them good night, he drew down the blind and closed the window, which was taken as a hint, and the musicians, not less surprised and gratified than the new rector, took their departure.The rector's wife looked up from her knitting, and smiled with unfeigned satisfaction. Like most women, she treasured up every act expressing kindly feelings as being of far more value than ordinary words, and never did she look more attractive than she did now, with her brown sparkling eyes, and her cheeks not pallid as those of dark beauties toe frequently are, but full of natural colour.It was a happy match, for the rector and his wife seemed made for one another. Both were infected with the same genial manners. They had small worldly prospects when they began life together, as any pair belonging to the ranks of the upper middle classes can tell when they have only three hundred pounds a year between them to live upon. Still by dint of setting their faces stedfastly against all luxuries, and by careful, clever, thrifty management as regards household expenses, they contrived to make ends meet, and neveer owed any man a halfpenny. Honesty is not always its own, bat it sometimes brings its own reward. The bishop was a faithful pastor of the shepherd as well as the flock, and although Mr. Haythorne had never conferred upon him any particular personal favour, he did not value the less his services, and took the earliest opportunity of encouraging the poor hard-working curate by installing him in a comfortable rectory.You must not suppose that Mr. and Mrs. Haythorne had not their troubles and trials and family cares as well as other folks. Three boys, George, John, and Edward, perfectly unlike each other both in form, feature, and character, were the objects of a considerable amount of solicitude. George, the eldest, aged sixteen, and dark, who was now poring over a book, was dull and heavy, and had a great antipathy to learning lessons of any kind. John, shorter than George, who was tall for his years, younger, and of a fair complexion, was shrewd and sharp, and would almost as soon take up an ode of Horace, or work out an equation as read a story-book. Edward, rosy-cheeked, and perhaps a little vain of his pretty looks, was much younger, and had just arrived at that period of life when boys, bursting with exuberance of spirits, are the creatures of impulse, and, when enjoined to keep quiet, never know what to do with themselves."If you do not know what to do, Edward," urged his mother, "think what you would like to do when you grow up to be a man like father. Would you not like to be a clergyman?" she added, and probably the earnest wish of receiving a response in the affirmative suggested the inquiry."I would rather be a drummer boy in a marching regiment!" answered the boy proudly.CHAPTER II.A COMMISSION.AT ten years of age, Edward Haythorne was sent to a school which was erroneously supposed to be a preparatory school to one of our great public schools. The boys were fifty in number, of ages varying from ten to sixteen, and they cost their parents in round figures not less than one hundred a year. It was rather a dismal academy, and they served a pretty rough apprenticeship. Their boots were cleaned once a week, when they were placed generally in odd pairs in a kind of monster pigeon-house, and they cut up their coarse victuals with their pocket-knives. A s cakes, barley-sugar, and other edible vanities were not allowed, and a trip into the village, or indeed beyond bounds, was most strictly prohibited, there was little room for extravagance. Morning, noon, and night there were ushers on watch, and not even the short prayers which they offered up beside their little iron cribs were their own; Edward persisted, contrary to law, in adhering to one taught him by his mother. So family affection was fostered, and as the gin-palace keeper is said to acquire by simply following his business a rooted antipathy to ardent spirits, there were not a few who learned from the sneakish system of surveillance, which descended from master to boy, the value of that nobler plan, encouraged by nobler natures, which has rendered one name at least, the name of Arnold, immortal. The boy was naturally encouraged by severity to cheat and tell lies, but he knew that if found out, as he generally was, he should be flogged without mercy, or caned until he was black and blue. Need I say that the school was in a perfect frenzy of delight when it was rumoured that the doctor was about to be made a bishop? and, at the suggestion of the second master, who was going to step into his shoes, the boys manifested their ardent affection for their head master by the presentation of a suitable and costly testimonial.Every Wednesday the school matron distributed a weekly allowance of sixpence, and the greater part was spent in school stationery, while the surplus was lost in pitch-and-toss, returned to the master in the shape of school fines, or dropped into a huge missionary-box, which was stowed away beneath his chair. Then, every Wednesday and Saturday, the boys were allowed the privilege of walking to a broad grassy down, where they might do anything they chose but climb trees, which was a heinous offence, or amuse themselves exactly as they liked. Edward was not remarkable at school for love of learning, but there were few who possessed a greater partiality for athletic games, or a greater ingenuity for mischief.The day came at last when he had to think about a profession, and he felt ten times more puzzled at the close of the year which was given him by his parents in order to make up his mind, than he had felt at the commencement, when he began to puzzle his brains upon the subject."Well, my boy," said his father to him one day, "the fact of the matter is, that although your name is down at the Horse Guards, I have not, as I hoped one day I might have, the money to purchase a commission for you, even in a line regiment. You see how mamma stints herself on account of the family expenses. Why, I don't believe that she has bought herself a new dress for the last six months or more; and, I must confess" -- this was added with a smile -- "that I should look none the worse myself for paying a visit to a tailor.""Why, I'm sure I do not want you to purchase a commission for me," replied Edward, biting his lips, for the words did not roll out very readily. "If it comes to the worst, I can enlist. There are many officers who have risen from the ranks, and the private before now has died a general."Now came the Crimean war, and there was no need to put the rash idea into practice. A long list of names on the old list of the "Iron Duke" had been cleared off, and Mr. Haythorne had no sooner applied to the Commander-in-chief for a commission, "with-out purchase," than his son received one, and was Gazetted within a fortnight as ensign in the -- th Regiment of Foot. How he jumped and danced with delight when the post brought this important document, together with the congratulations of military outfitters, and the moral epistles of certain grim maiden aunts, who, by way of improving the occasion, invariably seized his birthday, and all other changes and chances of this mortal life, as a fitting opportunity for a general attack.Dear Lucy was one of those who offered the warmest congratulations, but he did not object to that. He fancied he could see her provoking little face lighted up with the sunshine of true affection, shaking her riding-whip at him playfully, preparatory to going out with his rich old uncle Mortimer, the London banker, for a glorious scamper in the Park, amid staring Cockneys in moustaches and patent leather boots, and other Cockneys who ride so execrably that the wonder is that they are not always meeting with some frightful accident.How his mother cried when she took leave of him! He really thought that her heart would break, and perhaps it was partly because George, who never had a liking for work, went to sea, and she couldn't bear to be robbed so soon of both; and perhaps it was partly because she wished, poor soul! that all her sons would have grown up to graduate at Cambridge, like father, and then become clergymen.At last, brightening up a little amid her tears, she said, "Take care of yourself, Edward, and don't catch cold.""Don't run in debt, and don't write in the newspapers!" ejaculated his father.He gave a look which expressed at once the warmest repudiation at the bare idea of the thing, and the coolest contempt for the most genial journalist in existence.As the regiment was at the Antipodes, he had not to travel a very long way, as he was ordered, like most recruits, to join the depot, at that time stationed at Chatham. This delightful town, always very muddy, and full of oyster-shells, red costs, and blue jackets, was turned upside down, for it was race week, an annual carnival, which from time immemorial has begun with a considerable amount of hilarity, and ended with a severe engagement, captures and rescues, broken windows, broken staves, and broken heads.I am afraid that our hero did not feel very comfortable that night when he dined, for the first time, at what was once called the "Pongo" mess. The glare of golden epaulets, which were just going out of fashion, and the blaze of scarlet cloth, was perfectly bewildering. He was asked to take wine with so many of his new companions, that if he had really taken wine with each he would probably have been discovered under the table upon the following morning. So to get away he pleaded fatigue, and, servantless and candleless, he ran up to his diminutive quarters, where he flung himself down upon his bedding, but half unrolled from the valise, his own master, and yet quite out of his element, friendless amid the gay, utterly alone.How long the reverie lasted I do not know, but when morning light broke in upon him and consciousness returned, a tall, vigorous Irishman, of thirty or thereabouts, was standing at his side, saluting respectfully:"Plase, yer honour, I should like to be your servant, and Knowing that no man had been tould oh? for the duty, why I thought that I'd jist step up, and pr'haps prevent you from gitting into trouble on the first mornin', by saying that it's half-past five, and that you'll be for recruits' drill at a quarter to six.""And how am I to get you for a servant?" asked Haythorne, putting on an air of dreary resignation at the idea of turning out so early."Why, sir, ye can get everything ye want in the army by writing a small meymo, which is sent into the orderly-room by nine o'clock, and if it's certified, or approved, I should say, by the commanding officer, as you being an officer I anticipate it would be, why I should enter at once upon me duties.""But I don't know anything about your character," urged Haythorne."Why, I'm a patthern man, well brought up by me mother, a very dacent woman, who kept a public-house, and bate all the nonsense out of me, and as sober as a judge, barrin' St. Patrick's Day, as ye'll find, sir, if ye axes Colour Sergeant Murphy."Haythorne liked the cool impudence of Pat Corrigan, so engaged him without any more ado as his domestic.CHAPTER III.A CERTAIN PARTY."YOUR servant, sare, 'the man Moshesh,' as the young gentlemen call me. Quatre vingt dix --  Regiment. Vy, your regiment was never at Vaterloo!Ó"And what may you please to want, Mr. Moses?""I vant, sare? nothing, but all the young gentlemen vant me. There's nobody who could furnish your room so nicely or so cheaply as 'the man Moshesh.' Then in a few days' time you'll have to get two suits of clothes for your servant, a suit of livery for waiting in at mess, and a fatigue suit, shirt fronts, vite gloves, and vite ties; and there's nobody who can supply all those things for three guineas, and give you ten bundles of the juiciest, best-flavoured cigars in the vorld into the bargain, like the man Moshesh."The eyes of the Hebrew bagman twinkled, and I doubt if you could have found a finer, cleverer, odder specimen of the genus in all Petticoat Lane' or St. Mary's Axe. There was something picturesque, too, about the face of the old man, whose long and perfectly white locks fell down upon his shabby genteel dress. There was something, moreover, not unpleasant in the French accent, which has not hindered many men among us, including M. Fechter, the actor, from acquiring considerable celebrity."And what will you furnish my quarters, for?" asked Haythorne."From five shilling up to five pound a month," replied the bagman; "and if you vant money, vy" -- "Agreed!" he interrupted;" furnish my quarters decently, and I'll pay you five shillings a month."By taking four paces in one direction, and two and a half in another, Mr. Moses satisfied himself that the apartment was of the ordinary dimensions, viz., twelve feet by eight. It was furnished in a rough pausing a moment to take breath, "but there's that thundering ruffian Moses,don't have anything whatever to do with him," and catching the wretched bagman by the waist, he swung him up into the air, and then deposited him like a feather on the floor, upon which he was instantly sat upon by the rest, who would not rise until he had screamed again with mingled rage and vexation, and appealed in a proper and becoming manner for mercy. The matter did not end here, for Moses was carried off by his clients in custody, locked up in a cupboard, and not released before he made an offer of ten shillings for an old coat which only cost a pound originally -- a rash bargain, which weighed more heavily upon the heart of the Hebrew than tongue can adequately describe. Ah! the marchands d'habits have their bitter pangs as well as their delights.Edward's servant, who now came in, called his attention to a broken window pane which he had not before observed. It was no wonder that he had caught such a terrible cold."And how had I better get it mended, Pat?" he said."Well, sir," answered his servant, "ye may send a meymo to the quartermaster, and mayhaps ye may have to send six, for they're terribly slow in that department, and then in six months' time maybe they'll remember to think about it.""But life is too short!" he ejaculated."Faix! an it's too thrue," replied Pat, in a tone of bitterness; and then rubbing his head, and knitting his eyebrows, as if a happy idea had suddenly struck him, he added, "Shure, I'm a painter and glazier by trade, so make yourself aisy entirely. I'll put in for a 'pass' to-morrow, go out into the town, buy the putty and glass, and mend it meself for a shilling.""That certainly is reasonable," he replied; "and if one wants to get anything attended to, and done properly, there is nothing like doing it oneself."I do not know bow it is, thought Haythorne, but it seems hardly fair to buy a house, or to go into respectable lodgings, without giving a dinner-party, a dance, or a little reunion of some kind. He had been thinking for some days, that it would be the proper thing to have a house warming. At length he determined to give a supper parry, and ordered as much wine, brandy, rum, and whisky as would have started a wine merchant commencing business in a small way. It is usual to call such opportunities supper parties at the University, but "grog-fight" is the more intelligible and legitimate expression current in the army. The natural termination of a supper party is a fight of some kind, and hence the propriety of the appellation.So after mess one night, there was a clatter on the stairs, and friends dropped in, but hardly so fast as he expected. Ledbury, who said he would not fail, had got a whist party; and Thompson had gone to a theatre, in which you were permitted to encompass yourself in a perfect cloud of tobacco smoke in the boxes; and Dr. Johnson sent his servant to say that he might possibly drop in, towards the small hours, and in the meantime he might be found in the little back parlour of the "Tin Can," a saloon devoted to beer, brandy-and-water, acting of various kinds, with comic songs, and frequented nightly by all the rank and. fashion of this attractive, but rather remote locality." Then Lowther Grimley, who could sing a comic song better than anybody else in London, excepting Parry or Ross, had gone to the  Five Bells," to partake of some light refreshment in the shape of oysters and stout, and to waltz to the very inspiring strains of a piano and fiddle."Who'll brew the punch?" asked Haythorne, for he had no idea of taking upon himself such a serious responsibility."Oh! Magnus," was the reply. "If there is anybody who knows how to manufacture anything nice and tempting, it's Magnus," and the speaker smacked his lips vehemently, by way of giving force to the opinion.Magnus rose with a comical bow, and doffing his jacket, turned up his shirt-sleeves, and began to manufacture the punch in a hand-bason, which was in great request throughout the season. Two bottles of rum and one of brandy, plenty of sugar, slices of lemon-peel, and boiling water in combination, soon sent up an incense which was peculiarly grateful to the olfactory nerves."I vote for a song!" cried Brown, who was probably a little nervous of being called upon himself to oblige, his forte being Irish romances, which ho told to perfection, because he believed them to be true.Magnus, who had served out the liquor, which proved to be a very potent brew, accordingly favoured the company with the "Rat Catcher's Daughter," while the rest lit their pipes, and stowed themselves away as best they could -- a proceeding which required considerable experience when twenty persons were congregated in a room of the dimensions already described.All were certainly a trifle excited by the potent beverage which Magnus had concocted, and were arguing upon various topics, with a warmth and fierceness as if something considerable was at issue, when a circumstance occured which spoilt the amusements, and put an end to the gay and festive scene. Jasper North was suddenly seized with the idea that he had been returned for Parliament, and, balancing one chair upon the top of another, he insisted upon perching himself aloft, and making a speech."Gen'lemen,friends, Romans, countrymen, (Hear!) and lovers ('No! no!' ejaculated Brown), many a prime brew have I tasted, manufactured by Magnus of im-immortal memory ('Shut up' -- 'No compliments'); but of all the brews ambrosial, whose tempting vapours accelerate the reflective faculties" the remaining portion of the oration was drowned in a storm of invective and confusion which baffles description."There will be the deuce of a row!" cried Magnus, who seemed to be as right as a trivet, and turning to Haythorne he said, "Didn't you see Mills dash that tumbler at Jasper North's head? It was a mercy it didn't hit him?"North slowly dismounted from his dangerous situation, and was saluted by broken tobacco-pipes, which fell thick as hail on all sides. Like most Canadians,, he was strongly built, and he became suddenly a prodigy of valour. Instead of striking out at the company, he clenched his fist, planted four well-aimed blows on the door, smashed it, and knocked out all the panels without the smallest difficulty. Then he reeled against the table, making a small avalanche of bottles and glasses, and all the party made off through, the broken door, endeavouring to drag Jasper along with them."Follow me!" ejaculated a commanding voice, and there was a heavy tramp upon the staircase."What's the row?" asked an officer in uniform; whom Haythorne recognised as young Smithson, the, officer on the barrack-gate guard, and, without waiting for an intelligible answer, he said "Good night," and returned to his den."You're in for a nice row!" said Magnus, returning to the room in his night-cap, and rubbing his eyes as if he had been fast asleep, and had not almost knocked over Smithson on the stairs, in beating a precipitate retreat to his quarters. Then, taking some thin brown paper, and a small tortoise-shell comb from his pocket, he played a solo thereon, which gave him an appetite for the hot anchovy toast and grilled bones, which Fat had thoughtfully prepared, knowing that the company would be favourably disposed towards them at this stage of the proceedings.While the two were thus actively engaged, Dr. Johnson dropped in, and when his expressions of consternation at the state of the room, and the melancholy condition of the door were over, he gave a detailed account of the singular adventure at the Theatre Royal, in which he had played a most conspicuous part. I shall let him tell his story in his own words believing the first, however egotistical and wearisome a fellow, to be far more friendly than the third person:"Precious odd, if I'm not in the police reports to-morrow," quoth the Doctor. "Come, give me a pipe, and let me quiet my nerves," and if ever there was a face formed for staring blue devils out of countenance, or an eye that sparkled with a love of mischief, it was those which were owned by this popular rackety Sawbones."Oh! don't, Johnson; pray don't do anything rash I What would your governor say if he knew of your evil courses?" ejaculated Magnus, with a look of pious horror."Shut up, you monkey, or as Shakespeare says, 'I hate a fool,'" returned the Doctor, reprovingly."Silence! for the Doc-tor's stor-y!" drawled Haythorne, in the voice of a recorder, and this had the desired effect of producing silence."Well, we settled long ago that we'd have a lark at the theatre, and move the audience in the pit -- which is the only audience in the provincial theatres now-a-days worth mentioning -- to screams, if not to tears. Carlton, whose judgment in matters of a ticklish nature is equal to his skill in executing them, suggested a 'straw man,' and with my knowledge of anatomy, and the 'dress regulations of the army,' we constructed of straw and inflated bladders, an old gentleman, with an expansive forehead, be-tokening high intellect, and features which beamed with that mildness and benevolence for which those of Mr. Pickwick were so remarkable. We had the greatest difficulty in getting the old gentleman up into' the gallery, more especially as the ticket-taker was overwhelming in his attention, believing that he was a confirmed invalid. As we hadn't constructed the old gentleman to allow of his sitting down, he stood up awkwardly, and all opera-glasses were levelled at him, as if he had already made himself, by the pertinacity with which he retained his singularity, and studied personal discomfort, a public nuisance. We bided our time, and seizing a propitious moment, we had a row with the old gentleman, who tumbled about, and seemingly gave vent to his feelings by unmistakable grunts, which grew louder and louder in the scuffle. All eyes, of course, were directed upwards, upon which a voice, cried in a stentorian tone, 'Heave him over! heave him over!' With considerable difficulty we pushed the old gentleman towards the rails, and sent him flying, to the horror of the pit, who rose as one man -- the men roaring at the top of their voice, and the women clutching hold of their arms, screaming hysterically and fainting by the score. Well, to heighten the interest of the affair, the last thing we saw was half a dozen 'Peelers' on the pavement, in the act of removing as many men, evidently the mildest they could discover, who had been denounced by the mob as being the perpetrators of the wicked joke, and whose earnest protestations of innocence were met by the unanswerable rejoinder, 'You know'd it was you what done it, and we seed you in the very hact.' A seventh policeman followed, who seemed to have enough to do in assisting the old gentleman of straw to the station-house, to be kept as a silent witness against the day of trial.""According to the common practice of laughing at other persons' misfortunes, we gave vent to our reelings in a roar of laughter."But why need you be alarmed?" asked Magnus."The police have not a clue of any kind, and although a lodging for a night even at the station-house is hardly desirable, those who are arrested will probably be bailed out by their friends, or, at all events, they will escape scot-free when brought before the magistrates, for lack of satisfactory evidence.""Well, the old gentleman has one of my old mess waistcoats on," returned the Doctor, "and I rather think that there is a big J marked in the back of it. Losing the old gentleman never entered into our calculations."The next morning, on taking up the papers, there was a detailed account of the disturbance over night at the Theatre Royal, which mentioned among other things that a reward of £200 was offered for the discovery of the parties who were concerned in the affair. Such effect had the announcement upon Doctor Johnson, that he applied for a week's leave of absence on very "urgent private affairs," with the view probably of establishing an alibi, if needful, and in half an hour's time he was on his way to London.Mills went up to Haythorne after parade, and said, "For heaven's sake, don't mention the names of any of those who were at your supper party, for Smithson has put the thing into his guard report, and there is safe to be a row about it." Mills, by the way, was the adjutant. The searching official investigation which naturally ensued served to throw little light upon the matter. Haythorne was told by the colonel in command that he would be reported to the commandant, and that a black cross would certainly be placed against his name at the Horse Guards -- a hieroglyphic which has considerable force, more especially when an officer is expecting promotion, and is just the reverse of a red one. This was the first grog-fight which our hero ever gave, and it was at the same time the last.The unfortunate shindy took place, of course, in the small hours. Haythorne learnt subsequently that the officer at the guard-house visited his quarters with considerable reluctance, but he had very little choice in the matter, for one sentry shouted "Murder!" and another "Fire!" while the sergeant who heard the smashing of his door, imagined that somebody was unlawfully employed in manufacturing the coin of the realm out of the plundered mess plate, was punishing China with a vengeance, or deeply engaged in some other villanous transactions. The dilapidated door was visited by the quarter-master and barrack-master, furnished the subject matter of endless reports, and promoted a good deal of fun and gaiety among the garrison sight-seekers. Haythorne got a new door with more than ordinary despatch, and the quarter-master, to whom he was no stranger, when sending in the bill, set a wrong regiment against his name -- the corps of the author of the mischief. Truth will steal out in a wonderful way; and probably we should not tell or act half as many lies, if we were fully convinced in our own minds that they were such very miserable and utterly discreditable performances.CHAPTER IV.LUCY.ONE feels suddenly much older on reaching a new starting point in life, whether that start is an entry into jackets and collars, into that lottery marriage, or into a new profession.. Like most young military officers, .Edward thought in common with his parents that he was settled for life, and fairly started on the high road to fame, if not to fortune. One thing which made him take a fancy to the service was the reflection that the army is not a money-making calling, and it is well that a man should determine betimes whether he intends to make the race after.riches the beginning, middle, and end of his life, or whether he would not rather worship, in poverty perhaps, yet in greater purity, at the shrine of some less fickle goddess than Mammon.My own opinion is, that we are all growing too commercial in our ideas, and this tendency is promoted in no small degree by rapidly increasing population, with an aversion to emigration, and the way in which every possible and impossible profession is overstocked with competitors. "Would that I bad a trade!" is often the impatient cry of the squire's son, and an education is estimated by the lower middle classes as good in proportion to the value of the situation for which it enables a candidate to compete. "When things are at their worst they begin to mend," and it is to be hoped that this will be the case with our school system.Edward Haythorne felt richer than he had ever felt before in his life, and yet he was only an ensign, with his five shillings and three-pence a day, and an annual allowance of £100 -- the latter sum being entirely dependent upon the life of his father. He did not know, being quite untried as yet, how far such an income would go. He had got unfortunately into a fast set, and had started off at the rate of little less than ten thousand a year. Now he had begun -- for though careless and extravagant as most young men let loose from home restraint, he was not wild -- to draw up, and put the drag on. He had learnt a lesson from his first disastrous party, and, by strict attention to military duty, had regained in some measure the good will of his superior officers. The youthful escapade was forgotten, if not forgiven.At this very moment he was bending over his desk,, busily engaged in sorting sundry family letters and other relics calling up memories of the past Touching a spring there started out a little secret drawer, containing a small packet covered with silver paper, and tied up in white tape, the strings of which he proceeded to untie carefully. There was a lock of the most beautiful golden hair, and a photographic miniature portrait, upon which he impressed an ardent kiss, starting rather at the chilliness of the glass Drought into sudden contact with his feverish lips. It was evident that the lock of hair was that of the lady in question, and as he gazed at it he recalled the moment when Lucy had placed it in his hand.Edward was in love, and he was shrewd enough to see that in his case there was no likelihood that the course of true love would run smooth. Certainly he had a very wealthy godfather, in the shape of a China merchant, who was manufacturing his "piles" at Hong Kong; but this could hardly be classed under the head of "expectations." He was not at' all positive that his name was even mentioned in Mr. Courtenay's will. If there was any one who strongly objected to, and earnestly protested against his entering the army, it was his uncle Mr. Mortimer, who even went so far as to offer him a clerkship in his bank in Lombard Street, to give him an opportunity of acquiring business habits, and of cultivating figures, golden associations, and the friendship of City men. It was true that when the matter was definitely settled, Mr. Mortimer made him a present of a Wilkinson's sword; but uncles are wont occasionally to "tip" their nephews, rather out of a sense of duty, than by way of encouragement.Is it a weakness to fall in love? Then it is a weakness to which we must all plead guilty, I fear, more or less. And although to be loved is a rich delicacy which a man cannot always command, more especially if shy, reserved, poor, plain, and nothing at all out of the common, yet there is nobody who can keep him from loving, which I conceived to be, at least for the purposes of this story, the next best thing to being loved.And why should not a young officer fall in love, when from time immemorial the poet, whose whole soul and composition is love, has blended together brave deeds of arms and the tender passion? I talked of loving without being loved, and could I not weave a story of such mad passion, true, too, in its minutest detail, as would set men thinking whether it were not better never to have known the happiness of love, than to have fixed their hearts' affection upon such an unworthy object? There are few tragedies in fiction which do not fall short of those in real life. But there was a force which struggled hard with this feeling, and that was ambition, and the ardent love for military service, which every man who is born a soldier does and must feel."Plase, sir I here's a letter for ye;" said Pat, "which was given to me by the post-corporal; and I suppose that it is a letter of consequence, for shure it's marked 'immediate' in the corner."The interruption was a relief from thought, and Edward looked carefully at the address without discovering any clue to the name of the writer. It was an ordinary commercial envelope, directed in a bold, free hand. Tearing open the envelope, he read in mute astonishment the following laconic epistle: --"Sir, -- We have received instructions from one of our clients to place to the credit of your private account with Messrs. Gudgeon and Co., army agents, the sum of £400 annually, and to intimate to you at the same time that you will only forfeit this by any endeavour upon your part to discover the person to whom you are indebted for this act of generosity, or by your marriage."We are, Sir, &c,"GRAVES & Co." Who was he? Perhaps it was a woman after all; for women are often wealthy as well as men, and women are benefactors -- a discovery which all make who turn to the subscription lists of benevolent societies; and women love not seldom the mystery appertaining to the anonymous character. The money was just what he wanted. Such a sum would strengthen his position in storming the fortress of Lucy's heart; but then, "Hang it!" he cried aloud in such a lusty tone that even the sporting ensign opposite pricked up his ears, "there is that horrible proviso, marriage not allowed. Was there ever anything so provoking?"Farther thought on the subject was at an end, for Magnus entered, smoking, as usual, his deeply coloured meerschaum."You are going, of course, to the Bull ball to-night," said Magnus, as he sat himself down in the easy-chair beside the hearth-rug, and rested his feet, ornamented by Medwin's best boots, on the hob."No , I wasn't thinking of doing so," answered Edward carelessly."Exactly so, of course; but you must go, if it is only to oblige me. If you won't go, I won't go; if you go, I go; and that is the long and the short of the matter. Dr. Slammer, of the 97th, is sure to be there for one, and Miss Slammer, and the Smiths, and the Reeves; and they, too, I am told, have a large party of people staying with them who have come down from London expressly for the occasion. Then there is pretty little Fanny Rogers, your lady-love, on whom you were so terribly spooney" --"Psha! nonsense," interrupted Haythorne."Who, nonsense or no nonsense, has come up all the way from Bath on a visit to old Hobbs, the banker.""I suppose I must consent, as you are so pressing.""Of course, you must. Be a man and a martyr, for the nonce. What were military officers invented for, if not to be the life and soul of a garrison town? And if Rochester isn't Chatham, and the' Bull Inn' isn'nt the 'Sun Hotel,' why it's much the same. And then you'll be able to see if the description of the Bull Assembly Ball in 'Pickwick' isn't true to the life, and whether the big Dockyard people, don't snub the little Dockyard people rather, and make great donkeys of themselves, by way of impressing society with an idea of their greatness and grandeur. Why, the Lord Mayor is nothing to them!""But what do the tickets cost, for that is a consideration in these days?""Well, nothing whatever but seven and sixpence for gents; Dent's kid gloves three shillings a pair. Ladies five shillings, because they can't get through so much real gooseberry, I suppose, or at all events are not supposed to," said Magnus maliciously."And how must we dress?""Full dress, of course, for the Great Panjandrum will be there, if not the Commander-in-chief himself. It's wonderful what a keen scent such folks have got for an officer in plain clothes. They're worse than bloodhounds."By nine o'clock, Edward Haythorne had arrayed himself in that fancy costume known as full dress, and Magnus, who entered to give warning of the approach of a cab, was never more struck by the clever handsome face of his companion. Jumping into the cab they dashed off away from the terrace, and down the hill, and over the drawbridge, and past the famous lodging-house for the Seven Poor Travellers, until they arrived at the old dull inn, surnamed the Bull, to which, owing to the number of vehicles rolling along, all laden with their precious freight of youth and beauty, it was not such an easy matter to make way.The ball-room was already so full that there was really little opportunity of making an accurate observation. There was a tolerable sprinkling of blue jackets, and a bewildering blaze of red coats. Little Edward cared for what was passing, and although he 'asked Miss Smith, who was really very pretty and elegant, and anything but silly, to dance with him, his heart was evidently occupied by something else. And so thought Miss Smith, for evidently she had never had so dull and silent a partner, and she must have congratulated herself when the waltz had come to an end. She actually summoned up courage sufficient to say, "I think you would be happier dancing with some one else, Mr. Haythorne. I can read faces as well as books, and am sure that there is something on your mind.""Perhaps," said Haythorne, "it may be foolish and! absurd, but I have a presentiment that something unlooked for is going to happen, and whether for good or for evil I cannot determine.""I see that I must run away from you," returned the fair speaker, laughing merrily," or you'll infect me with your low spirits."No one could have brought this charge against Haythorne ten minutes later as his eye glanced hastily over a memo, which had been sent to the ball-room by a brother officer. It ran thus, "Hurrah! The regiment's returned, and we're under orders, too, for active service in India." Haythorne bounded rather than ran down the stairs, and jumped into a cab. Leaning out of the window to direct the driver, the glare of a gas-lamp hard by fell upon a face which had haunted him all the day.It was She.CHAPTER V.OVER THE SEA.A MONTH flew by rapidly, and no previous month had been so full of stirring events. How inquisitively everyone at the depot looked forward to the arrival of the regiment, feeling very much like the child of parents who are living in India, brought up we will suppose by a maiden aunt in England, when told to welcome strange parents who are coming, home. "I've heard they're stunning fellows," said one, "and that there are no cliques, like there are in some regiments I know.""And Thompson is one of the best bats and billiard players in the world, and thrashes every one who is so rash as to challenge him at anything. Ask Bell's Life if I'm not correct," added another proudly.And when the regiment marched, drums beating and banners flying, into Aldershot Camp, the drums all patched, the colours battered, the men gloriously bronzed, and veritable sons of Anak, in comparison with the small men who crowded round them, and accoutred in the old obsolete uniform, everybody wondered from what ends of the earth the regiment had come, and thought it rather hard that it should be ordered off so quickly, after Buch a long period of service abroad. Such thoughts were not shared, however, by the officers shaking hands cordially with the few old and more new hands who were now to join their number. They had been performing for years the dreary duties of military police, watching wild human beasts in the chain-gang, or still wilder tribes in the "Bush," looking after tipsy pensioners, and marrying, in sheer desperation at the idea of ever living to get home, the pretty daughters of wealthy colonists; and now they were longing for something better than inaction, and thirsting for employment in that wide field which has proved the nursery and school of our bravest and greatest heroes.There was something in Haythorne, some irresistible attraction, which bound him more closely than others to the old lot, still wedded to the fashions of a quarter of a century ago. He listened by the hour together to their yarns of kangaroo-hunts, and hot winds, of shadeless trees, vanishing lakes, and of gold discoveries working small revolutions in society, by creating the beggar of to-day a king in all but name, with the income of a hundred marquises to-morrow. I think that, though untried, his brother officers felt intuitively that Haythorne had all the makings in him of a dashing officer, and that his handsome face and gentlemanlike manners were but outward and visible signs of his integrity, courage, manliness, and intellectual superiority, of which they had daily proofs. There was a coolness about him, an intrepidity and skill, which pointed him out to them as the fittest man to command a pack of foxhounds in a difficult country, to ride a steeplechase, or to lead a forlorn hope against stone walls and thundering guns, if needs be -- as a man who gave the lie to the idea that the human species have degenerated in this nineteenth century, and that if a Waterloo were requisite, there would not be stalwart heroes forthcoming to fight it and conquer as bravely and nobly as their sires.Magnus laughed, as he sat at the door of his hut, and then said "Gammon!""What's gammon?" asked Haythorne."Why, bidding good bye to all your relations before you go out to India. It looks just as if you thought that you would never come back again, and that your next visit would be to what some people call their 'long home.'""Well, I've said good bye," returned Haythorne," to all but one, and I wrote" --"To her," observed his companion, his face beaming with pleasure at the idea that he had. made a good shot this time."Well, 'to her,' if you will," returned Haythorne."Silly moth! flitting round the candle," said Magnus; "and yet I know how very irresistible it is, and the more so in proportion to the difficulties of getting the prize. A woman won in a day, like a trout caught at the first throw of the fly on the stream, would not be worth a fig. It is trying to do what no man ever yet did, -- make the course of true love run smooth, which is half the pleasure. The worth of a thing isn't, in nine cases out of ten, its intrinsic value, but what it will fetch. Experience of the prize gained may be attended by pain rather than pleasure. Marriage is a glorious uncertainty! You may turn up trumps, or draw the lowest card in the pack.""I'd give anything for a good wife; wouldn't you?" ejaculated Haythorne."Of course," answered Magnus, smiling; "but I have never yet fallen in with the perfect woman I'm looking for, in common with many a philosopher. The ladies say that I talk abominable trash about them, and I daresay I do; but then it's the nature of the beast, and you remember how, in the popular nursery fable, it took a Beast as well as a Beauty to make a world. We have all got our hobbies, and they stick to us tightly as the bones to the pilgrim in that charming legend,'Sintram and his Companions.' What is more, we think everybody mad for believing in them but ourselves.""There is no bar to marriage in your case, however," responded Haythorne."That's just what it is," answered Magnus." In this world everything goes by the rule of contraries. If I was a pauper in a workhouse, and hadn't a shilling to my name, I suppose all the women would be dying to have me for a husband; but as it is, they call me a conceited prig, and a horrid crusty old bachelor, and can't imagine, I suppose, however it was that my mamma thought me a lovely little creature when a baby, or ever had the slightest fancy for me at all."Such frivolous conversation, in combination with sundry pipes, served to while away the time until the first mess bugle warned the speakers to prepare for a great farewell dinner party, with an extraordinary amount of champagne-cups, toasts, songs, and cigars.Three months passed rather more drearily than the last month on shore, and Haythorne landed with his regiment at the Oriental and Peninsular Wharf, Calcutta, and marched into Fort William ere sunrise, encompassed by a thousand strange and curious objects, far more pleasant in the back ground of pictures, than in the foreground of reality. This was merely a temporary arrangement, for there was a demand for troops up country, and the regiment was pushed on by wings, by means of bullock-train and river steamers, with more than ordinary celerity.And now broke out that terrible mutiny which took every one, and none more completely than those in India, by surprise, which within the space of two years filled every English household with lamentation and woe, "Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted because they are not." Out of the ghastly discord of bloodshed and madness, how many came forth to meet death without terror! How often, in the hour of victory, we beheld "our noblest descend into the grave, and thought it enough to garland the tombstone when we had not crowned the brow, and to pay that honour to. the ashes which we had denied to the spirit!" How nobly, too, shone forth woman perishing self-forgetful in the fond embrace of husband or of child, her body sacrificed by incarnate fiends to idols, her soul accepted in her Beloved, entering, radiant with beauty, into the kingdom of God! Draw the veil over darker deeds, hide them in eternal shadows of oblivion!There is nothing more trying than compulsory inaction in the battle-field, and there are none who have a sorer trial in any campaign than those who are left behind to idle at ease in cantonments, while their comrades are marching and counter-marching, seeing daily new scenes of life, meeting with new adventures, and hearing day after day the bugle sounding "the assembly," and the inspiring word "Forward!" Haythorne's regiment took no active part in military operations, until called upon to swell the force under General Outram, which took part in the siege before Lucknow."They say that the day of the assault is decided on," said Magnus to Haythorne one day, "and that the plan of attack will be given, as far as it is possible to plan such matters, in to-night's orders.""Has your sword been sharpened," asked Haythorne;" for no sword could be too sharp for those rascals? We have stormed the Martiniere, and advanced our batteries across the canal; but it strikes me that we shall find the defences about the Begum's palace confoundedly strong, and shall have to put our faith in bravery rather than numbers.""Sharp as a razor," replied Magnus; "but a tailor's sword is a poor weapon, after all. It is really moral rather than numerical force, which has always given an edge to the weapon and success to an army.""If you'll stand by me, I'll stand by you to the death," said Haythorne gravely. "We have both been together in danger for some days past, and we may have some murderous work to do before we die, and our country discovers our merits.""Ay, I will," and Magnus seized his comrade's hand, and shook it heartily.The hour of trial came at last, and regiment after regiment moved against the enemy. It was stiff, mostly hand-to-hand, regular in-fighting. Magnus was sent with two companies to silence a gun, and Haythorne waited with breathless excitement to know the result. It was an awfully exciting moment. The companies, lying on the ground, jumped up at the order, formed in line, and advanced through the darkness and a storm of grape; gradually the tramp of their footsteps was lost, and there was one, if not more, who put up a prayer to Heaven for the gallant young captain, who would be a target of every rifle. Suddenly was heard a volley, accompanied by a triumphant cheer. The party returned, for the gun was spiked. But where was Magnus?"Let me volunteer, sir!" cried Haythorne to his colonel, who was standing by, and his petition was granted. Taking half-a-dozen men who were at hand, he rushed along the bloody pathway, and though knocked down twice, and covered with wounds, succeeded in finding Magnus, half buried in the corpses of friend and foe. Placing Magnus on his shoulders, he had just strength enough to drag him out from the scene of carnage, and to drop him, fainting himself from loss of blood, at his colonel's feet. There was one word only which Haythorne caught, and that was, "Nobly done!" Haythorne, when he closed his eyes, did not know that it might not be to walk the Valley of the Shadow of Death; but he would have given up his soul peacefully, for this was the approbation of the bravest, most generous, and skilful of commanders -- of Outram, "the Bayard of India."CHAPTER VI.CONVALESCENCE.EDWARD HAYTHORNE lay long in the land of forgetfulness, and when he awoke, he found himself in bed, in a house still used as a hospital for military officers at No. 1, Russell's Street, Calcutta. He could hardly move, and considering that he had no less than eleven sword thrusts and bayonet wounds, it was a wonder that he had not paid the last debt of nature. His first instinct was to ask after Magnus, and the matron, who entered with a bowl of beef tea, said that he was under the same roof, and doing as well as could be expected. His next was to ask for letters, but at this she shook her head, and answered that when he was stronger he should have them, and that she had only that day received the most stringent orders upon the subject from the house surgeon, whose will was law. This was very disappointing, but there was no help for it, and closing his eyes under the weight of weakness and exhaustion, the invalid dropped off again to sleep.Recovery came gradually, and Haythorne was well enough to get up for some hours every day, and to move into another room with a pleasanter look-out, taking in a view of the broad grassy sward, with the fort in the distance, and the picturesque cathedral, with its spire pointing silently upwards to that world which so few men live for, or care to think about. He had got his letters, and was now reading them again for the twentieth time, for each time that he read them he seemed to discover something new; and although the events described as just having happened were well nigh forgotten by those who played a part in them, these were just as fresh to him, whose memory was as green as it ever was. One must goto the Antipodes, or bury one's-self in the "Bush," in order to realize the inexpressible joy created by the receipt of a friendly letter. There was a good deal in these letters which was not at all satisfactory, and gave more trouble, I fancy, to the reader, than the writer ever intended to convey, when he gave loose rein to his thoughts. For instance, one ended, "I believe that your cousin Lucy is actually engaged to be married to a country magistrate of considerable fortune. She is a good girl, very pretty, very clever, and will be a great catch, I think, for anyone who can manage to engage her affections, which is the great difficulty, for she is wayward, and says, if she marries anybody, she will marry a red-coat; and such a freak of fancy your uncle would not sanction for a moment.""Hulloa!" said Haythorne, fumbling in his pocket, "another letter, -- from home too, and unopened." We will peep over his shoulder, being of rather a curious turn, and pick up some of the contents. The letter, after commencing in the usual way, ran as follows: "You will be surprised as well as grieved to hear of the unexpected and heavy blow which has fallen on some members of our family. In consequence of fraud on the part of a clerk in your uncle's employ, combined with the failure of a branch bank, and an unlucky rumour started in a hunting-field, there was a run a week ago upon your uncle's bank. It was quite impossible to meet the demand for deposits, which continued and increased daily, and I am sorry to say that it was found needful to close the bank, and announce that all payment was suspended. The engagement, if there ever was one, between Lucy and a country magistrate (a matter to which I briefly alluded in my former letter), is naturally broken off with her blighted prospects in regard to an adequate dowry." Haythorne shouted with joy as loudly as he could -- not that he ever believed for an instant that Lucy had been engaged, or if so that she had given her heart where she might, acting upon parental authority, have promised her hand. Doing well on double pay, he had not drawn a fraction of the £400 allowed him for the year by a person or persona unknown; and accordingly he took up his pen, and instructed Messrs. Graves and Co. to place the sum of £400 to the credit of the account of Mr. Henry Mortimer, making out the entry as a receipt, "from an unknown client." His heart felt happier for that act of charity. "If my uncle knew," he reasoned, "from whom the money came, I am certain that he would decline the favour; but he has no action in the matter, as I intend to maintain the profoundest secrecy."Then, when still stronger, Haythorne limped into the long ward in which Magnus still lay, helpless, but with just the same brave, bold, careless, adventurous spirit as ever; and when he could bear it, he read aloud to him some of those glowing letters about battles in which they had both taken part -- letters of "Our Special Correspondent," who possesses such a world-known name that one need not breathe it here.Not far from Magnus was Vernon, a brother officer, who was ill, but made rapid strides towards recovery, facilitated by the knowledge that he had been accepted as a volunteer in the forthcoming China expedition. Haythorne knew that Vernon would have to visit Hong Kong, and therefore turned him to some account, by giving him an epistle for bis uncle, with an accompanying letter of introduction. The sight of such a rapid recovery was rather tantalizing to Magnus and Haythorne, who intended to pass a medical board for sick leave to England as soon as they were convalescent, and able to bear the excitement and fatigue of travel.CHAPTER VII.A BIT OF CHINA.A PLAIN, sallow-faced, careworn-looking man, representing the well-known and opulent firm of Courtney and Co., Hong Kong, was lounging in his luxuriously furnished drawing-room, scanning the morning paper, and wondering how any man could have the conscience to believe that he was conducting his paper purely for the public benefit, by waging such a savage war against the colonial Governor. "Suppose he is a snob," argued the merchant, "what's that to me? Bless me! are not half the men in this world snobs, and avaricious humbugs? and isn't disinterested generosity -- bless me! there's a ring at the door-bell again. I cannot describe the waste of time and the loss of temper consequent upon these morning visitors. Certainly, I ought to be in my office; but then -- I wish Dr. Compton would come and see me -- there's that twinge again of gout.""There it is -- but this is Edward's handwriting -- a letter from India.""Master can see, or no can see?" inquired the China boy, in the Canton-English lingo."Can see," cried the merchant; "oh! -- there's that twinge again of gout;" upon which the China boy whisked himself out of the room so furiously that his pig-tail stood right out, like the tail of a cow in a hurricane."So you are an officer, sir; in the same regiment as my godson," said Mr. Courtney, half rising from the sofa; "and how did you leave him? Sit down in that chair, and excuse me for any apparent want of attention for -- Bless me! there's that twinge again of gout.""Yes, sir," answered Mr. Vernon in a courteous tone." I am sorry to find that you are such a sad sufferer.""Oh! pray don't mention it," interposed the merchant rather testily; and then aside," I wish Dr. Compton would come and see me, -- there's that twinge again of gout.""Captain Haythorne is a good deal better," observed the visitor, who looked hardly at his ease, and cast his eyes upon the gorgeous furniture, with the odd and costly ornaments of copper enamel, and jade, and the splendid Japanese cabinets, which flashed from every corner."I'm glad to hear that," said the merchant, "and I should like to know, if it is not too much to ask, what you think of Captain Haythorne -- you understand me. I mean to say what character does he bear in the regiment?""I really know very little about him," answered Vernon;" he's got rather a name for closeness in money matters, and the best thing that I know about him is, that he is a sworn friend to Magnus, who is the most genial fellow you could meet anywhere. Nobody denies that he is brave as a lion, and that Magnus owes to him his life. I believe that he has been already recommended for the 'Victoria Cross,' and that he is safe to get a staff appointment if he applies for one when he gets home.""Ugh!" said "Mr. Courtney," close in money matters. Bad thing that, I suppose, for an officer, who should have an inordinate capacity for spending his own and other people's money, eh? But I should like to have heard that he didn't make himself exactly singular, as he seems to do, poor boy. I happen to know he does not want money. Ugh! there's that twinge again of gout."Vernon took his departure and left the merchant to his reflections. There was little peace, for the China boy entering announced the arrival of the doctor.Dr. Compton was a lean, anatomy of a man, who appeared to have come upon the stage of life a little before the time, and to have got, in his effort to, be in advance of other people, considerably in arrears. One eye was blind, which seemed to impart additional brilliancy to the other, and his whole features possessed that striking resemblance to those of a bird, indeed, it was rumoured by some wags, that the only reason why he would never attend the learned lectures, meetings, and discussions, of the Hong Kong branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, was the fear that he might be mistaken for some ornithological specimen, and be added to the collection of curiosities."It's very hot," observed Dr. Compton, limping into the room, balancing himself by resting on his stick, which formed a tripod in conjunction with his weak and tottering legs."You're right," returned Mr. Courtney. "There's the old enemy at me again. Now, I have made a good deal of money, and I've an idea of leaving China. Then I know what half the China merchants do when they go home -- get cross" sigh for their old friends and associations, can't stand the climate, and kick-kick-kill themselves with weariness and vexation of spirit."Just then the China boy entered, and said, "Mrs. Brown have sent servant makee say, Mrs. Brown have got one smallo piecee cow chilo this morning,"  -- by which he intended to express the idea that Mrs. Brown, the wife of a partner in the firm of Courtney and Co., had presented her lord with a promising daughter."All right, A-ping," exclaimed the merchant, and dismissed the trusty domestic."I'll send you something," exclaimed the Doctor, preparing to depart likewise, "and in the meantime here is a receipt compounded by an American gentleman at Shanghae. It will make you laugh if it does nothing else, and that is what you want more than anything which I can discover in my surgery. You remember, perhaps, Dr. Parr's remedy for gout, 'Prayer, patience, and port wine.'"Mr. Courtney read the following, stopping occasionally in order to roar with laughter: --"My name belong Norval, top-side that Grampanie-hill,My fader -- you savey my fader? Makee pay chow-chow he sheep.He smallo heartie man, too muchee likee that dollar; gala!So fashion wanchee keep my counta one piecee chilo, stop he own side.My no wanchee-wanchee long that largee Mandalin go knockee all man,Littee time I also pay, my what thing my fader no likee pay.That moon last nightee get up lound all same my hat,No got full up, no got square, that teem plentee piecee.That lobber man, too muchee quaisi, all same that tiger,Chop chop come down that hillee, catchee that sheep, long that cow.That man custom take care, too much quick, lun away.My one piecee own eye, lookee see that Ladrone man what side he walkee.Hie-yah! no good chancee findee he lun catchee my fiend.Two piecee lun choon, lun catchee that lobber man, heNo can walkee willy, quick he pocket too muchee full upSo fashion, knockee he largeeHe head man, no get shottee far, my knockeeHe head -- hie-yah! my number one strong man,Catchee he jacket longee he trousee, you likee look see?My no got putee on just now, my go home, largee heart just now.My no likee take care sheep so fashion, my hear you got flghtee this side.My takee one servant, come your country, come helpee you.He heart all same cow, too muchee fear, lun away:Maskie! Joss take care, pay my, come your house."Next to the birth of a lovely daughter, there was nothing in the world which gave Mr. Brown greater satisfaction than this attack of gout, which had seized hold of the foot of his senior partner; and when Mr. Courtney further expressed his intention of retiring from business, and of seeking in the bosom of his family at home that peace and quietness which commercial life does not generally afford, he could hardly contain himself for joy. It is to be presumed that Mr. Brown had a good balance at the Mercantile or Oriental Bank, and I may here remark that I never yet met in any China journal with an advertisement, which is frequently met with in the Times, to wit, that £5,000 or £10,000 are wanted, to buy out a partner, and that such a loan would be exceedingly acceptable, as I should rather imagine myself it would be.Had Mr. Courtney gone home to England by the regular mail steamer, there is not a shadow of a doubt that he would have been feted at the Hong Kong Club, and that he would have been invited very probably to a grand banquet by the military. For not less than a fortnight the door of his house would have been besieged by dutiful Chinamen, all bearing parting "cumshaws" or presents, in the shape of bales of silk, chests of tea (Jardine's Mixture), rare specimens of jade-carving, and sacks of "chopped" dollars. Then when the steamer started, there would have been such tremendous salutes of Chinese crackers, that all the inhabitants of Victoria would have been deaf for a week afterwards, and would have had good cause to remember the departure of the worthy Croesus. But Mr. Courtney was a retiring man, very sensible of the fact that the best of mortals are not so good as they ought to be, and averse to fuss, and accordingly he dropped off quietly to Singapore in the steamer Thunder, which reads something like a misnomer, and the China Mail affirmed that he was a good as well as a great man, as of course he was.You might imagine, perhaps, that the loss of such a citizen would have seriously affected the trade of Hong Hong, but there is no evidence forthcoming to prove that it did. There was an average number of Chinese criminals brought the following week before His Honour Chief Justice Smithson, but when the next mail came in, the signal gun of the Fort William certainly miscarried. Had that anything to do with it?CHAPTER VIII.ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL.MR. COURTNEY walked proudly down Regent Street, and rather missed the convenient Rattan sedan-chairs which are so plentiful in Hong Kong. The fashions, especially the extraordinary shape of ladies' bonnets, and the dimensions of their dresses, to which, unlike fashion itself, there appeared to be no limits, struck him as being rather remarkable. He was somewhat astonished that none of the passers by recognised him as the wealthiest China merchant of the day, and he had half a mind to step into the studio of a very importunate photographer, with the view of having his carte de visite taken, and giving them gratis to the proprietors of all those inviting shops, in which they are arranged in the windows in such tasteful combination, a grave Bishop in lawn sleeves, surrounded by laughing Ballet dancers, and a General casting furious glances on an exceedingly benevolent -- looking Lord Chancellor.Although Mr. Courtney had a very large connexion in the shape of correspondents, he had not the smallest intention of trespassing upon their hospitality, -- a sojourn of nearly thirty years in the East had robbed him of many of his old friends. Mr. Brown had recommended him to patronize the Tavistock Hotel, in Covent Garden, if he had purposed going to any hotel at all, and he accordingly went there, and found that it suited his temperament and tastes as a confirmed old bachelor. He was invited to secure an outside room, but he protested against such an arrangement with the gentleman who had the allotment of the various chambers, and he ultimately gained the day. I am certain that if he had not done so he would have been kept awake half the night by the glare of the gas-lamps in the street, and by the perpetual rumble of market-carts, and the clatter of the tongues of market gardeners and costermongers, to say nothing of tipsy loiterers shuffling home from the gin palaces.But. if there was anything in the hotel which afforded Mr. Courtney unbounded delight, it was the pigeon-hole arranged in the coffee-room for the reception of letters from A to Z, which gave you an opportunity of taking notes of your neighbours' correspondence, as well as of enjoying your own. Finding one morning that there was not a single letter of any size or shape for himself under the head of C, it struck him as being a good idea, and the most agreeable method of discovering the names of the residents at the hotel, to look at all the letters. You cannot imagine the old gentleman's surprise when he found, under the letter H, six letters, one from the Horse Guards, marked of course "On Her Majesty's service," for Captain Haythorne, of the -- th Regiment! and under the head M, letters for Captain Magnus."Waiter!" exclaimed Mr. Courtney, "can you tell sue if Captain Haythorne is in the hotel?""Yes-sir, -- really can't say, sir, -- but will make inquiries, sir, immediately," exclaimed the smart dapper little waiter, whisking his napkin under his left arm with an air which would strike envy into the breast of a waiter at any ordinary eating-house, or even one in close proximity to the West End.Wonders never cease, for here was a letter for Lieutenant Vernon, and it was written in that graceful slanting hand-writing which is recognised as a feminine hand. Mr. Courtney dropped it like a hot potato, and muttered, "Some very fascinating actress," but I cannot possibly undertake to say what he meant, or if he meant anything at all."No, sir!" exclaimed the waiter, with such emphasis that it made Mr. Courtney start; "they har not in the hotel at present, but they have engaged rooms by letter, and therefore, I presume, they will harrive here to-night, or at the latest to-morrow.""Give them my card, if they arrive during my absence in the City on business," said Mr. Courtney. The waiter gave a bow,and if he was deferential before, he was ten times as deferential now. I am sorry to say that he gave a sly wink at the cook as he disappeared out of the coffee-room, and exclaimed, "That jolly old gentleman have business in the City? Well, jonner comprond par, as the Frenchies say. I should have taken him to be the proprietor of a luncheon-bar in the Haymarket, and hadn't a hidea that the gent was arf so respectable."Mr. Courtney put on his hat and gloves, and cabling a Hansom cab, jumped in, shouting in a vivacious way, which was quite unlike his usual manner, "Smith and Co., No. 23A, Cannon Street, City.""Come in," said a voice; and Mr. Courtney entered an office, not unlike offices in general, full of desks and high stools, and pale clerks who looked as if they had nearly worked themselves into a galloping consumption by a strict attention to figures."How dy'e do, Mr. Courtney? How pleased I am to see you," said the speaker, who was none other than Mr. Mortimer. "Here, come this way into my private sanctum, and we can talk without any fear of being overheard by these industrious scribes.""And how are you getting on now?" inquired Mr. Courtney. "That bank was really a bad business. Mr. Brown, my partner, told me all about it, and then I got a more detailed account of the affair from the father of young Captain Haythorne. Plucky young fellow that! -- just got the ' Victoria Cross.'""Well, to tell you the truth," replied Mr. Mortimer, "I am not ashamed of confessing my poverty, as most men are now-a-days, when nearly everyone you meet, lives up to, or over his income. As I am paying off the debts of the bank, I have not got a penny, and -- the most mysterious thing in the world! -- I have got the sum of £400 a year, which is placed to the credit of my account by Graves and Co., at the direction of a person or persons unknown.""Very extraordinary, 'pon my honour. Capital! A perfect mystery, with a moral to it," exclaimed Mr, Courtney. "Fail in business, but honestly of course, if you wish to gain the sympathy of your kind anonymous friends, to the tune of £400 a year."There was a rap at the door, and who should enter, of all men in the world, but Captain Edward Haythorne, who had recovered his good looks, but was still pale enough to be interesting in the eyes of his relatives, if not of one whose face had haunted him from the moment of his stepping on board the transport for Calcutta to the present hour."Haythorne," said Mr. Courtney when they had all ceased shaking hands, and had chatted a moment or two about the events which had transpired in the space of the preceding year and a half, "you were rather in my black books a few months ago, for I heard that you didn't go so fast a-head as many of your comrades. I don't know why I should not tell you now that it was I, your godfather, who allowed you from the date of your entering the service £400 a year.""Oh! godfather, how kind of you I How can I thank you sufficiently? How can I return your kindness?""By simply accepting £800 a year for the future," returned Mr. Courtney, his face beaming with pleasure. "By permitting me to make you heir to a fortune of £100,000, which is something in these hard times, and by retiring with your well-earned honours from the service, to aid me in looking after an estate which I have just purchased, in the prettiest part of Kent.""Then it was you, my noble nephew, who placed £400 a year which you did not touch, to my credit," ejaculated Mr. Mortimer, as the truth flashed upon him for the first time."Of course it was," interposed Mr. Courtney, "and. the act was noble and generous, for £400 a year was something to my godson, while it was a fleabite to me. I gave him the money merely to see how he would spend it."Haythorne smiled, but modestly answered nothing,. although silence gave consent."And how can I repay you, nephew?" asked Mr. Mortimer. "Surely everything which remains to me, and I have but a wreck instead of a ship at your service, is yours, if you will claim it.""I am in love with Lucy, and I ask nothing but the hand of your daughter, for I know that her heart is mine already," said Haythorne frankly and boldly.Mr. Mortimer gave a long-drawn sigh, for Lucy was his only daughter -- the angel of his hearth, and the solace of his declining years. Still he said "Yes," for he knew that his nephew spoke the truth, and the condition made by his godfather that he should retire from the service removed all scruples which he entertained against the marriage of his daughter with a. military officer.Was there ever such a happy party of generous people! I wish that I only had the skill of a painter to give you the group. Mr. Courtney, an Ordinary looking man at most times, was positively handsome. A tear trickled down the cheek of Mr. Mortimer, but it was a tear called forth by mingled feelings, in which those of joy far out weighed those of sorrow. Haythorne's hand rested in that of his future father-in-law, while Mr. Courtney's right hand was placed upon his godson's shoulder. The little office looked positively cheerful, as if it had half a mind to forget that it was an office, and was determined to assume for the nonce pretensions of an elegant drawing room."Only write, 'I consent, if you consent,'" asked Haythorne of Mr. Mortimer, taking up half a sheet of writing paper. And when the words were written, and duly signed too, so that there could be no mistake about the quarter from which they proceeded, he folded up the paper carefully, and placed the memorandum in his pocket-book."Call upon a man of business in the hours of business," ejaculated Mr. Courtney, "and so on -- you know the rest. I think that we have got through a pretty considerable amount of business this morning, eh! Captain Haythorne? Even in matters of the heart, a City man is no fool, I can assure you."Then there was another shaking of hands, not less hearty than before, and Mr. Mortimer, merely a scribe now at a desk in the house of Messrs. Smith and Co., ship brokers, &c, took up his pen, and began such abstruse calculations, that any one who had not been initiated into the mysteries of the craft would have imagined that he was working out the distance of the earth from the sun, or testing the arithmetical puzzles of some second-rate Chancellor of the Exchequer.CHAPTER IX.WEDDING CRIMES.TO have his uncle's consent was one thing, to gain his cousin's was another. "There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip," and other trite sayings, suggested themselves in a most intrusive, unfriendly way. Nevertheless, "a faint heart never won a fair lady," and Haythorne was certain that there would not be half so many capricious, ill-natured old bachelors in the world, if true love, after all, was not like the philosopher's stone.So Haythorne rattled away to certain lodgings in Brompton Square, and gave a grimy-faced maid-of-all-work his card, and instructed her not to hand it over to her mistress until she had fully explained to her that a most particular friend had come to visit her, from over the sea, by way of breaking the news as gently as possible.One long step, figuratively speaking, and the brave soldier was at the side of his cousin, their eyes brightening with untold pleasure, and their voices faltering with emotion. It was no ordinary greeting, for Haythorne opened his arms, and Lucy, agitated, more beautiful than ever, and yet half irresolute, wept tears of joy as she returned the kiss of her cousin, already her true, if not acknowledged lover."You will let me call you my Lucy," urged Haythorne, passionately, as he placed his hand upon taper fingers which were not withdrawn; and although there was no voice that answered, no reply hut another embrace, a gentle blush, and a glance, he felt that he had conquered.It seemed to Haythorne that he had never known happiness before, and Tennyson could not have aided him in finding softer expressions than those which gushed from his lips, the natural outpouring of a heart that thrilled with love. Yet was that magic spell subservient to the call of duty! and if his country only spoke the word, he could have torn himself away at that instant, and have dared death at the cannon's mouth."But, Edward," exclaimed Lucy, when the first moment of excitement was over, "you must remember that I am an only child, that my father has often said I must never marry a soldier, and what will he say?""My days of soldiering are over," replied Haythorne; and at the same time he drew from his pocket-book the memorandum which Mr. Mortimer had given him.Lucy's face showed that she was more than satisfied, and there remains no cloud to overshadow the sunshine of her happiness. She now learnt that her lover had been their unknown benefactor for the last two years, that he was heir to a considerable fortune which would be left him by his godfather, who hod appointed him his agent, and whose magnificent country-seat would be their own temporary, and probably their future home.The idea of a joint home brought a shadow over Lucy's countenance, and she said, "Indeed, I would much rather lire in the lodge, and leave the Hall to your godfather. We should be a thousand times more cosy there; shouldn't we?""He is a most charming old gentleman," returned Haythorne; "very ugly, but that's of no consequence -- I owe him everything, and the least we can do is to make his last days happy."Lucy pouted her pretty lips; she had accepted Haythorne, but to accept Mr. Courtney at the same moment was quite another matter. At that moment the door opened, and the gentleman in question was announced."I am afraid that I'm interrupting some very agreeable conversation, Miss Mortimer?" said Mr. Courtney on entering. "Your father and I are old friends, so I was anxious not to delay making your acquaintance. Besides, I have some reason to think that you are a dear friend of a very dear friend of mine;" and on this he laid bis hand upon his godson's shoulder, his eyes appealing to him for a reply."That is not half strong enough," ejaculated Haythorne; "for nobody can conceive what we've gone through in the last half-hour; can they, Lucy? It's all settled now.""Then I'm really the first to congratulate you?" said Mr. Courtney, again shaking hands with Lucy. "Why, your father will be jealous of me. Now I have something more to say, viz., that I have determined to take a house in Belgravia, which will exactly suit me, and Eversley Hall, Kent, is entirely at your disposal, I suppose it will cost two thousand pounds to furnish, so you had better let me write a cheque for that amount now I'm about it.""Oh! really yon are too kind," cried Haythorne; "is there nothing we can do to prove our gratitude?""Nothing, my dears, but to make yourselves as happy as the day is long," replied Mr. Courtney; and he rose to take leave, having conferred more happiness in this single day than he had succeeded in doing during the whole course of his life."So we have nothing more to do," said Haythorne, "but fix the wedding-day!""Except the dresses," urged Lucy, with mock gravity."And what garb do you propose to wear?" asked Haythorne."Oh! yellow gauze," said she in a confidential whisper, "trimmed with green baize flounces.""Then I shall hire the dress of an old Court fool.""And where shall we go for our tow'r, as old nurse calls it?" asked Lucy."To Borne, or Jericho," returned Haythorne. "Wedding tours are getting too common. What say you to a cruise?""Don't try my patience!" cried Lucy."Such pleasant banter lent the hours wings, and it was scarcely interrupted by the presence of a third party, Lucy's father, who liked to see the young lovers enjoying themselves, for it reminded him of the spring-time of his own life.The wedding day arrived at last, and we will peep into St. George's, Hanover Square. The morning sun is just breaking in through the eastern window, and shedding a glory round the foreheads of a youthful pair bending before the altar, who, hand clasped in hand,, receive the final benediction of old Mr. Haythorne's long-tried friend and bishop, who had asked to be permitted to perform the ceremony. Mr. Courtney is standing beneath an archway, from which he can obtain a full view of the bridal procession as it sweeps down the aisle; and he takes the greater interest in the service, inasmuch as it is the very first wedding which he has ever witnessed. Haythorne's mother follows, leaning on her husband's arm; and time seems to have laid his hand lightly on her still youthful form. Mr. Mortimer has never looked so quietly happy since the day when his troubles first began, though perhaps it may have been partly owing to George Haythorne, now a lieutenant in the Royal Navy, having made it his particular vocation to cheer up the old gentleman's spirits, from the inexhaustible supply of fun and nonsense with which every sailor is gifted.Taking up the Times the other day, I saw an announcement of the death of Mr. Courtney, and the same paper announced that Captain Haythorne, his heir, had been returned as representative in Parliament of an important borough in the North if England. You, my readers, will doubtless agree with me, that so brave and intelligent a soldier is not likely to fail in the hour of his country's need.