CHAPTER I.

"HE'S gone to sleep again! Do go and kick him, there's a good fellow. You've only just settled, and I've got into such a lovely position; I shall never get cool again if I move."

"I'll go for three of the Oscuros, you selfish dog."

"Done. They cost me three rupees each; but I don't mind, if you'll only kick him very hard. This is the third time this week he's gone off in the middle of the day."

In accordance with his bargain, the younger of the two speakers left the room; and presently some dull sounds, accompanied by dismal howlings, attested that he had performed his share of the agreement.

"Thank you, my dear fellow; it's positively delightful. Look, it's swinging twenty-six to the minute. It's really quite refreshing. Pray help yourself. It's quite worth the nine rupees, if he'll only keep it up for ten minutes."

The young man lit his Oscuro, and they smoked on in silence for some time.

"Anything new?"

"Nothing. All the old stories over again. The major's grumpy; colonel's coming in a fortnight; usual alarms about the treachery of the natives, and they are beastly insolent."

"'Beastly insolent' is strong language, Ensign Larkins."

"'Beastly insolent' is the phrase that precisely describes my opinion of the present manner of these niggers, Lieutenant Browne."

"Larkins, such language is unbecoming. It is most evident to me that you are one of those who regard the natives of this mis-governed country as slaves; who trample on their rights, despise their religion, mock their prejudices, and treat them like a conquered people. If I were governor-general -- "

"Which God forbid!"

"I say, if I were governor-general, all this should be altered. I would encourage them to retain their customs. I would support their religion, respect their most trivial prejudices, and, in short, my policy should be one of sympathy and conciliation. But I waste my tune in addressing such sentiments to a man like you, Larkins. I will therefore cease."

"Thank Heaven!"

"You are new to the country, Larkins."

"I am, Browne; I came out exactly and precisely three days after yourself."

"Let us cease discussing the niggers and their treachery. See whether you can find me a single scrap of news. It's dropped to sixteen; kindly throw the boot-jack at the mat; it may hit him if you aim carefully, and throw hard. Thank you; you see it's now twenty-three; it was a judicious cast."

"News by Jove! yes, there is a scrap -- Charlie Weston, of the 65th, has joined the depot, and brought his wife with him."

"Is she nice?"

"So they say. A Kentish girl; dark grey eyes; and as lively as a kitten."

"Charlie had some money, I think."

"Browne -- Lieutenant Browne -- you're a consummate humbug. Did you not win from him at least a hundred and fifty the last night he was here? Did he not pay you on the spot, in notes?"

"Ah, I had forgotten -- he did. I remember now; we really wanted it."

"We did; you had a hundred and forty-five, and I, five pounds."

"True; and you owe me that five now."

"As you say; true, I owe that five, and will pay you when we settle our somewhat complicated accounts."

"Very good; as you will: and she's nice? How very comfortable to have a nice woman on the station. Except the little chaplain's daughter, there's not a woman or girl in Barrabad I'd buy a bouquet for."

"No, I daresay not, though I can remember the time when you bought a bouquet for every woman you met."

"When is she visible?"

"Can't say. There's a youngster only some few months old, so she's not very likely to show much, just yet."

"How very interesting. Can you reach the boot-jack? No; dear me, I've nothing within reach. The dictionary will do. 'Spoil it.' Oh, never mind, I'm up in Persian now, and it's down to ten. If you could shout at the same time. -- Larkins, you are very awkward, you've split the back of the book without producing the slightest effect on the counting; it has sunk to eight. I shall positively have to get up."

"Here, give me that soda bottle; kick it along the floor."

"A thousand thanks. Shall I shout? One, two, three; Jaldi Punkah Wallah."

"That is beautiful, I'm sure it must have hit him; it's gone up to twenty-seven, and the bottle has rolled back to such a beautiful position, close to your hand. What did you say she did, Larkins?"

"Oh, sings, dances, and is one of the best mimics off the stage. A fellow who saw her at Calcutta, says she's splendid at charades, and that kind of thing."

"What a mercy! if she really likes the higher walks of the drama, I could indulge her with my Romeo to her Juliet."

"Doubtless; and earn Charlie's lasting gratitude by a life-like action in the tomb scene. No, no, Browne; Mrs Weston likes a good laugh, but has a Romeo of her own."

"Well, it can't be helped. I must try and get to the hills at the same time that she goes, and have a quiet flirtation. Charlie's a commissioner of something or other, I suppose, so he won't be able to go. I really think if it were not for those delightful grass widows, the hills would hardly be worth the trouble of going to. Shall we call to-night?"

"By all means; I should like to see her myself, so let's have a peg and drop off."

The gentlemen had their peg, but, before dropping off, the elder ejaculated: --

"Larkins, excuse my disturbing you, but do you think it would be as well to remind our friend on the other side of the mat of our existence? It's only going twenty-three."

"Bother! Let it go twenty-three or thirteen. Let's go to sleep. I shall be like an owl to-night."

"Larkins, my child, you'll come to a bad end. You've had three Oscuros, and a peg, and now you refuse to throw that bottle to oblige a friend in distress. I must see the doctor about it. It must be liver -- not ingratitude."

"Hold your tongue, do, and be quiet."

"It's now sunk to twenty-one and a half. It will be motionless when we wake. It must be liver."

"If you say another word, I'll fling the bottle at you, you rampant idiot."

"Poor fellow! Yes, it must be liver! And his best friend, too. Alas for him; better if it were ingratitude." And the speaker turned to the wall, and slept the sleep of those who sleep on the yielding charpoy beneath the lazier and lazier fannings of the oscillating punkah.

* * * * *

"And the tall one was lieutenant Brown?"

"Yes, the 'Haw,haw,' fellow; if you did not know that man, and judged him by his outside shell, you'd say he was an empty-headed, foppish libertine, without an idea beyond his own comfort, and yet when you do know him, he's one of the best fellows alive."

"He struck me as having the disease you men call 'heavy swell,' and that we women call insufferable stupidity, very strongly marked. Well, Bridget, what is it now?"

"Will yer see me insulted, marm? Me, the lawful wife of as good a man as there is in the army, and yer own servant. Will yer see me insulted by the great big wretch of a blackamoor?"

"What is it? Of course you shan't be insulted; but who is insulting you? You've driven your roaster away, so tell me at once."

"Yer see, mistress, that I was just in the cabin place that ye call the kitchen, when I see the nurse coming along with the baby, looking so pale and white, poor little soul, so I takes up the spoon and offers him a drop of the wakest whiskey and whater in the world, that I found with a lump of sugar in one of the tumblers the jintlemen had been a drinking from, just to comfort his little innards, and if she, the black baste, didn't say some- thing in her gibberish and knock the spoon and the sugar and all, right out of my hand on to the floor, and, then went off talking and muttering, 'Drinkee no good for massa bee-bee; peg very bad for bee-bee.'"

"And quite right, too, Bridget. The absurdity of giving a child three months old such things; I'm ashamed of you!

"But, mistress, darlint, it's my own boy that's only two weeks older than yer own, that never sleeps of a night without just a sup from the father's glass, ye see, and he's as hearty as ye'd have him yerself."

"That may be; but for goodness' sake never do such a thing again, and remember I trust the ayah with the child entirely; so go and make it up. There, run away, there's your master coming in. What's the matter, Charles? You look horrible."

"Matter enough, Isabel. We shall have to part, and at once. These cursed niggers are up to some mischief, or I'm mistaken in the signs."

"Oh! we've heard that for months -- ever since we came here."

"This time the wolf is here. You must go to-morrow to Calcutta, and then to England. Take the child, and hope for better times."

"It's impossible, Charles. I cannot go, and leave you here."

"My dear girl, if there were no child in the question, I would let you stay -- we could but die together. As it is, you must go; a child three months old can't be sent away from you."

"But is it so bad?"

"So bad! If these pottering old fools had had their eyesight, it would have been seen and known long ago; as it is, I hardly know whether you run most risk by going or staying; however, go you must to-morrow."

"Alone?"

"No; you can take Bridget and the ayah, and Browne, who is ordered down with certain despatches, will take care of you."

"It is so terribly sudden; and you won't give me a little more time, dear Charles -- a day or two?"

"Not an hour. If you are not ready when the escort starts to-morrow morning at four o'clock, you and our child will have to remain and take the risk of death too terrible to be thought of. Don't argue or plead thus, there's a good girl, but get ready. God knows I've not had you or him long enough to tire of you, and it breaks my heart to part with you; but it must be so. God give us courage and hope for better times."

Dismal were the lamentations of Bridget when she found that she, like her mistress, must leave her husband for the sake of her child, but she had the good feeling to set off next morning with a smiling face, "to keep the darlint mistress's heart up," as she said.

"Browne, my dear fellow, you're going out of danger against your will, and you're taking my heart with you. Don't let her fall into the hands of these people and live. Think of your sister and your mother, and do as you would do to them. Don't scruple; I leave all to you."

"I swear to you, Charlie, she shall be as safe as my life can make her. Does she know the risk?"

"Oh, yes; she's provided as far as a drachm of Scheeles' best acid, that hasn't seen the light of the sun here, can provide for her and the little one. God bless you, Browne."

"God bless you, Charlie," and so they parted.

It was a long, tedious journey for the few who had to travel at racing speed, from Barrabad to Calcutta.

The rising a little after midnight; the start at three o'clock; the rapid morning flight through an enemy's country; the constant watchfulness and danger; all told upon Mrs. Weston and her servant, while the ayah and the children seemed none the worse for the fatigue. Day after day, the same headlong hurry for safety. Lieutenant Browne had proved himself, as Charlie had predicted, one of the best fellows alive, always the first to wake and the last to sleep, he showed himself fully conscious of the trust reposed in him by his commander and his friend.

On the morning of the sixth day from the start he was aroused by his servant, who told him that there was a spy who had come through his pickets with information.

He rose, and found a native in the outer tent, who told him that a strong force of budmashes and rebels had posted themselves so as to intercept his path by the direct road; but stated, that he could guide the party by a detour, which would bring them out some ten or twelve miles beyond the enemy's encampment.

It was a painful position for Browne; he could have no adviser as to his decision, no one to share the responsibility. Nevertheless, after some little hesitation, he sent to Mrs. Weston's tent a request to see her.

"I'm glad you've come, Captain Browne. Bridget here has some terrible story that she wishes me to listen to, and you shall hear it from her own lips. I was about to send for you when your servant came. Now, Bridget."

"Well, now, ye see yer honour that it was neither myself nor the child could sleep a bit this blessed night; and I was all of the fidgets when I heard the sentry challenge, and so I turned out and looked and see the budmash blackguard go into your tint, and see him come out again; and then, yer honour, I see him a skulking about as if he was looking for some one.  'Bedad,' says I to myself, 'ye murtherin' black, cut-throat looking thing, I'll have my eye on yer;' so I drops the flap of me tint and looks through the slit, and see him go round to the back of the mistress's tint, and then he began making a noise like a buzzard; and presently I heard a noise like another buzzard, and then, yer honour, what did I see but the blackamoor nurse, bad luck to her, come out of the tint, and begun a hugging of the dirty black nigger as if he'd bin her own son, as mayhap he is, for she's owld enough and ugly enough for it. Then they began jabbering and talking. 'Bedad,' says I, 'I'll know what you're talking about;' so I ups and rouses the young sergeant with his arm off, and gets him into her tint; and we cut some of the stitches in the back, and looks through the hole to see 'em and hear, 'em; and, bad luck to 'em, it's murderin' us and the mistress they mane, it is, it is; and if you doubt me, there's the sergeant there, now, that will say the same."

"Go and fetch him; and mind, not a word of this to any one else, or I'll put you in one of the gharries and lock you up in it."

"Divil a word, your honour, to a living soul I'll breathe."

"Do you believe her? is she to be trusted?"

"Trusted as to telling what she sees, not what she hears. You had better ask the sergeant; he knows the language."

The sergeant entered.

"There he is, yer honour; and it's ivery word that he'll tell you the same as myself, that I saw."

"Hold your tongue, Bridget, or I shall have to send you away out of the tent. How, sergeant, tell us what you know."

"This morning, Captain, about an hour ago, Mrs. Murphy came and roused me, and told me a nigger was talking to the ayah outside the tent, and asked me to come and hear what they said."

"Well?"

"I went, and saw the spy we have had with us talking to the ayah, and, after listening a while, I could hear a little of what they were talking about. It appears, as I made it out, that he is her son, who had been driven away from home by his father, and that she saw him for the first time for some years when he first came to us last week for a spy."

"How old does he seem?"

"About eighteen; a mere lad, but well-made, and strong. He went on to say that he was going down to Calcutta, when he fell in with us and offered his services, hoping that what he would get from you on your safe arrival in Calcutta would set him up in the bazaar; that, hurt night, as he went forward he was caught by the budmashes about eight miles from here, and that he told them he had been hired by you as a spy; but that he was with them at heart, and hated the whites, and agreed with them to go back and say nothing about their lying there, and report the road all clear to you. They had made him promise to get back to their camp before sunrise; failing which, they would march in upon us at once, and attack the party as soon as started. She asked if he knew any of the people; he said he knew the chief of the gang; that they were only robbers, with a few disaffected soldiers. She then said she would give him all the money and jewels she had, to give the chief, for some purpose I could not make out. It was something to do with a child and a woman; what, I could not tell, though I listened very attentively."

"The murderin' thief! didn't I see her with my own eyes give him the bracelets off her own black arms to give the wretches for murderin' the mistress and the darlint young master?"

"Do be quiet, Bridget."

"Quiet! when it's your life and the life of -- "

"Be silent, Bridget, will you, or leave the tent."

"And what is your impression, sergeant, from what you heard? That this man was telling the truth?"

"Quite so -- he seemed only anxious to get away soon, for fear they should, start before he got back."

"You heard nothing more?"

"Nothing; except the words used with reference to some woman and child."

"Where is the native now?"

"Outside your tent, captain, waiting your orders."

"See the sergeant of the guard; tell him on no account to let the spy out of his sight till he has my leave."

Bridget and the sergeant left the tent.

"I really hardly know -- we are not strong enough for their number; if we keep the main road we shall certainly meet them and be slaughtered, if the spy is not a traitor -- all depends on that. What sort of a woman is this ayah of yours?"

"A very good, faithful servant; very much attached to myself and my husband, for he saved her child's life at the risk of his own, one day, when it fell into a tank. The child died afterwards of some disease, but she has never forgotten it. I would trust my life to her."

"That does not prove the faithfulness of the son."

"Ho; but if they attack us, she runs the risk of her life, and he would not be likely to risk her life."

"You see, madam, you have as great a stake in this matter as I have -- more, perhaps "

"I trust most implicitly to you, Captain Browne -- most entirely; but I do urge you to trust this young man, for I do not believe so faithful a creature as Tara could let us be betrayed even to save her own son. Will you see her and question her?"

"Yes. Let her come in."

"Your name is Tara?"

"Yes, sahib."

"Who was that you were talking to. outside the tent just now?"

"Tara's son, no seen long time. Good boy; serve Captain Sahib; look out days before time to go; good boy."

"What did he tell you?"

"Meet budmashes; budmashes want papers Captain Sahib carry; want blood; want to shoot Mem Sahib, and piccaninnee sahib; all bad. Tara's son lead all round about safe -- go back, make budmashes wait -- then come, take Captain Sahib through tope safe. Good boy, Tara's son, Captain Sahib, quite good, like white soldier; all right."

"Let her go; she seems honest enough. We must decide at once, if we are to trust this fellow and let him go, it's time he went, or he'll not he there before daybreak."

"Let him go, I'm sure Tara is to be trusted, and her son, too. If my instinct is right, those bracelets were given to purchase my own and Charlie's safety."

"I suppose it must he so; we can but try the detour by the right, as he proposes. You will be ready to move the instant he comes back."

At this moment, one of the cords of the tent was violently shaken, and a curse muttered in the native tongue.

"We have been overheard; some one has listened;" and the captain dashed out of the tent, and saw a native servant running for the adjoining wood. He fired his revolver at him, and the man staggered for a moment, and then sped on.

"Fire at him! Fire at him! A hundred pounds to the man who hits him."

Shot after shot from the rifles of the guard rattled after him, but not one appeared to hit him, and he entered the black shadow of the moonlit wood, uninjured, except by the first shot.

"Who is it? Who is missing?"

The camp, now roused by the reports, was easily mustered, and then it was found that the only person missing was one of the bearers of Mrs. Weston's party.

"And he understood English?"

"As well as you or I; he was most useful to me."

"I fear he has heard everything, then; there's no help for it now; we must keep the spy, and move at once; we may perhaps find a road to the left. If we move at once we shall get some hours' start; they will go round by the right and not find their mistake till they reach this; twelve miles will give us at least four hours start of them."

"They will attack us in the rear, though, when they do come up with us."

"We must risk it; we can hold them in check while you press on, and you may meet the advancing column that we have been looking for, the last three days."

The camp was soon broken up, and the time for marching fixed. Captain Browne gave instructions for the immediate shooting of any native belonging to the camp who was found deserting. Happily, the spy, Tara's son, knew of a road to the left of the main road, which, though more difficult than that on the right, was practicable; so, under the bright light of the clear moon, they started. They made a temporary halt at eight o'clock, and then once more pushed on, under the now blazing sun, and at their utmost speed.

"I think, madam, you had better take that child from the nurse, and let your own servant have it; she can manage both; and if any thing happens -- "

"No! no! I'll keep it myself, it's safer here than anywhere else, and I have a medicine for it, that Bridget has not."

They had started but one short hour, when one of the rear guard rode in, covered with dust, and bleeding from a gaping wound on the cheek.

"They're on to us, captain; sergeant sent me on to tell you. There's more than a hundred of them; half of them sowars. Corporal Blissett's down, and the sergeant's wounded. What orders?"

"Keep them at bay for five minutes till the women and baggage get to the front, and then let them come on. You can make a dash for it, when you see our line."

Hurrying to the rear the whole available force at his disposal, he formed them against a wood in rear of some overturned gharries, as a breastwork, and waited for the arrival of the enemy.

"Give me sword -- gun -- something, Captain Sahib," said the spy. "I fight like you against budmashes. My mother is risk."

"Take one of my revolvers, my lad, and don't fire too soon; there are six lives in your hand."

They did not wait long. A few minutes, and the sergeant and his now diminished band came galloping along, some two hundred yards in front of the enemy. Halting, and leading their horses, behind the breastwork they waited the attack. They waited in vain, nothing came within the range of their carbines.

"Don't waste your fire. Nothing under two hundred yards, lads, and then give it them. They've halted now. Sergeant, take these papers, go forward to the women, and hurry them on; you may meet the advancing column in the main road again."

"Don't send me, captain. A damned nigger has slit my left arm open with his talwar. Let's have another go at him."

"My good fellow, go forward and get some of the women to bind your arm up; you'll drop in ten minutes if you let it bleed in that way."

"But, captain, indeed, just as one's doing a little duty to be sent to the rear."

"The front, man, not the rear. You're as much doing duty in going there as we are in staying here. The papers and the women must be looked after."

"All right, captain, I'll go; but do think of that grey-bearded beggar in a red turban, on the grey mare, for me, and put a shot through him for me, the beggar!"

"I'll see to him if he comes in my way. Now go, sergeant; hurry them on while we keep the road, and God bless you!"

"God bless you, captain! I'll go, but I'd like to stay best;" and the sergeant rode off.

"Look out, captain, they've doubled on us; they're in front as well!"

It was too true; the enemy had divided his force, forced a party of his best men through the wood, and it was this party that now came galloping along the road. Then there were shouts, groans, curses, and prayers, mingled with the sound of shots from guns and pistols and the clashing of steel; then there was a thunder of hoofs, and then silence.

CHAPTER II.

"CAPTAIN BROWNE, ma'am."

The widow ran out of the room, down the stairs, to the passage, and seized a bronzed, bearded man's hand in both her own.

"Oh, my dear captain I you bring me news; after all these years you have seen him? you know where he is? you have heard something? Oh, for God's sake, speak! You do bring some news?"

"Indeed, madam, I bring none. I don't know, indeed, of whom you want news. Your dress would tell me, if I did not already know, it is not your husband."

"No, no; that I know but too well. It is my boy, my child; you must bring news of him."

"The baby. Ah, I remember, he was with you then; but I bring no news. I merely came as an old friend, who had seen troubled times with you, to know how you escaped, and to talk of those scenes so deeply cut into our minds."

"Come, then, let us spend the day together; you may perhaps help me to trace out that child. Come up stairs; my sister is there, and we can talk it all over."

The captain followed his hostess to the drawing-room, where he found the sister spoken of, and was properly and in due form introduced.

"Now, tell me how you escaped. I left you at the alarm, when you hurried us all forward, and the last things I saw, as I looked out of the dooly, were the overturned bullock-waggons and the men behind them. After that, what happened to me, I will tell you presently."

"Well, the enemy came on, after I had sent he wounded sergeant to hurry you forward, and we fired at them, and then found ourselves attacked in the rear as well as in front. They had passed through the wood, and came upon us so suddenly, that we were helpless. There was a great deal of cutting and slashing. I had brought down three or four with my revolver, when I got a cut on my head from a talwar, that brought me to my knees. I fired the last shot into the fellow as he rose in his stirrups for a second blow; but, though it hit him just in the breast, he would have made an end of me, then and there, if Tara's son, the spy, had not thrust my sword right through him. Then I fainted from loss of blood, and, when I came to my senses, found myself with my head lying in the spy's lap, in the centre of the wood; this must have been some half hour or more after the blow. And then I heard,

"'Captain Sahib all right; live again. Shedallah joy; one day, two days, all right. Keep him rag on.'

"Of course I was very grateful to the poor fellow, and, after awhile, I asked him how he managed to escape. But he is below, call him up to tell you the story himself."

Tara's son was called, and came in salaaming profoundly to both ladies, and was told to give his version of the escape.

"When Captain Sahib faint, nearly all cut up. No chance for Sahib, if alive, -- only faint. Shedallah kill himself, take tumble over Sahib's head -- hide it -- budmashes stick lance into Shedallah -- no movee -- dead -- behind him dead budmash, then little time come, look out, cry 'soldiers! soldiers!' then all the budmashes and sowars gallop off; leave dead men  all sorts -- budmash, soldiers, dooly wallah, tent wallah, bheestie; little time moves; Shedallah look up; turn him head; see nothing alive; then kneel up; then stand up; walk about; all dead; then shout; no one speak; birds fly away to trees, wait a little, then begin again to sit upon dead man's head; pick out -- "

"There, never mind that, tell us what came next; what did you do with your master, the captain?"

"Captain, him dead little time, like sleep; pull Sahib out of road -- pull him into wood -- then take get water, shake him over Sahib like rain; then open him breast and rub; then put little stick up him nose. Sahib begin to breathe short and quick through him nose, and open him eyes. Shedallah very glad -- then shut him eyes; then Shedallah very sorry. Make him more rain, and rub him breast, and the little stick up him nose again. Then Sahib wake up sudden and say, 'What the debbil you do to my nose?' Then Shedallah know all right, all right -- English Sahib all right -- always say dam and debbil many times. Sahib know all rest -- quite awake -- put bit water rag on him talwar cut -- bind him up tight -- Sahib massa once more again," and Shedallah again salaamed his audience.

"Well, when I had recovered a little," continued Captain Browne, we pushed on
through the wood to look after the rest, striking the road now and then to find traces of you and the escort. About three miles further down we came upon the traces of a struggle -- some dead coolies, the plundered waggons, nearly all the escort, and some ten or a dozen budmashes. We examined all, and found all dead, except the wounded sergeant I had sent on to get you forward. We thought at first he was dead, but finding his skin more moist and elastic than that of the other poor fellows, we tried to restore him. He became sensible in about an hour, and gave us an account of what had happened, which, of course, you know as well as he. The same night, as we lay in the woods, for he was too weak to walk, we heard a cry like a child's cry -- feeble and faint -- still, a child's cry. A little search brought us to a ditch, where we found a living and a dead child, both without a rag of clothing of any kind. We took them out and tried to revive the one; it was clearly dead, so we buried it deep under a tree to keep it from the animals, and endeavoured to feed the other."

"Yes, Mem Sahib, Shedallah bite rice in him mouth and put it in piccaninnee's mouth, little and little."

"But which child was living? Was it mine or Bridget's?"

"They were so young I could not tell, and, moreover, so stung by the insects it was quite impossible to distinguish their faces."

"And the living child -- what became of it? I have such a terrible feeling of certainty that it was mine."

"I gave it up to the care of Shedallah here, and he fed it day after day as well as he could -- getting food at the villages, and we keeping out of sight and trying to reach the river- side. We reached it in a few days' march, for both the sergeant and myself were getting stronger, and managed to hail a boat, and so got down to Calcutta."

"And the child?"

"Was all the time, till we reached the river, fed with rice, then with some milk from a goat the boat's people had. As soon as we reached Calcutta, we looked out for the mother of the child, for, when the swelling caused by the bites bad gone down, the sergeant became certain it was the child of the Irishwoman."

"Oughtn't I to know, captain, who have dandled him dozens of times on the road down?" said he.

"I did not know what to do about it. I thought of advertising it, but the sergeant seemed so positive that I allowed myself to be led; and this statement was confirmed, for in a few days the woman herself came and claimed the child from Shedallah; she seemed to me to have gone to the bad, for a more disreputable creature I never saw, and even at that time in the morning I was glad to get rid of her; she had been drinking already."

"And you gave up the child to her?"

"What could I do? the sergeant and the woman both said it was hers."

"Did she at once recognize it? How did she behave?"

"As I told you, she was troublesomely tipsy at that time; she seemed pleased to have her child, but I remember having at the time a feeling of disappointment, and a feeling of dislike for the woman, at the coldness she displayed, so thoroughly un-Irish as it was."

"Did she say anything when she first saw the child? Who had it when she saw it first?"

"Shedallah, Mem Sahib; Shedallah out in doorway; Shedallah grown fond of piccaninnee -- feed him -- wash him -- dress him; piccaninnee fond of Shedallah; Bridget woman come, look at piccaninnee; woman say, 'good God! that not my Denis; no, no, not my Denis.' Then wait a little, then come close again, till I smell brandy pawnee in her mouth; then take piccaninnee from me, and go in to Captain Sahib, and rain out of her eyes, and say, 'Massa too good -- husband dead -- no money.' Captain Sahib give money, ask where live -- then go away with piccaninnee; never say, 'Tank you, Shedallah;' never mind, she dam drunk, not know what she say; so Shedallah go in the dark, and rain out of him eyes; very sore in him breast many days -- weeks; then look about in bazaar for Bridget woman; no find, then get well, all right. Very sore now -- tink of piccaninnee --  bebe -- up here, back of eyes, then feel sore down here in inside. When me no tink, me no sore; when me tink, me much sore."

"And do you think it was hers, Shedallah?"

"Shedallah not know what tink; Mem Sahib, very funny, say 'no,' mean 'yes.' Sahib shall say at dinner, 'You have more?' 'No tank you.' Then Sahib shall say, 'A little bit more.' Mem Sahib say 'Yes,' and have more. Sahib say, 'You come live with me -- be wife?' Mem Sahib say, 'No, no, no.' Then next day he come again, and Mem Sahib say, 'Yes, yes.' Bridget woman like Mem Sahib; say 'yes,' say 'no.' If piccaninnee's mother, then bad mother; not warm -- not much kissee nor squeezee, like Mem Sahib. Sometimes me tink no mother, then me tink mother. Shedallah not know. Mem Sahib, Bridget woman, all like wind -- blow here, blow there -- can't tell."

"Now, captain, have you the least lingering suspicion -- doubt -- that that child was hers?"

"My dear madam, until I entered this room I had no doubt about it whatever, not the faintest; but I will admit it is possible it might not be hers. But what motive could induce her to claim it when not hers, I can't think."

"But I can. Six months ago I made the acquaintance of the wife of Colonel Bridgham, who had, like myself, been separated from her child, and who had advertised in the papers about it. In answer, she saw a woman who brought a child which she said had been found in India, and brought over by a soldier's wife, who had died soon after the voyage and left it to her. The child was not Colonel Bridgham's, and she sent the woman away. I think that child and the one you let that woman have, were one and the same, and I have the most terrible conviction that the child is mine, not hers. I think the woman fell into bad hands, and she took the child as a means of extorting money in the future. The woman Mrs. Colonel Bridgham saw made her sign a paper, promising a very large sum if the child was hers, before she allowed her to see it. I have employed all possible means to find the woman since, without success."

"I'm really very sorry indeed that you should have this feeling so strongly; I fear it is ill-founded; but tell me how you escaped; it may throw some light upon it."

"You left us, you remember, Captain Browne, to hold the road in our rear while we pushed forward to gain, if possible, the main road, and meet some of the advancing column then coming up the country. I had scarcely lost sight of you and the barrier of overturned waggons before I heard the noise of hoofs, and the sergeant came up with orders to push on as fast as possible; the men shouted at the drivers, and beat the coolies that were carrying us to make them go faster. It was all in vain; they came up with us. At that moment I had the child in the dooly with me, and the first thing by which I knew we were attacked was the sudden dropping of the dooly to the ground and the flight of all the bearers. Then I hardly know what occurred; I was stunned by the noise of the guns so close to me as the escort fired, and have so confused a recollection of the time, that I must have fainted. When I came to myself, the child was gone. The advance guard of one of the columns, hearing the firing, hurried up, and arrived in time to drive off the budmashes, who had overpowered the whole escort, and prevented them finishing their work. They took me with them after vainly searching for the child and Bridget, for I should have told you my ayah had by some means contrived in the confusion to get me out of the dooly into the wood. The officer waited as long as he could, and at last I found one of the original bearers, who said he had seen a sowar with the two children in his arms, and they looked to him as if they were dead then, for a shawl was round both their necks. At last the officer could wait no longer, and told me he could not, and that I must go with them. I asked in vain to be allowed to remain with the ayah and continue the search for the body of my child; he firmly declined, and made me go with his party. I remained with the column, to go back to my husband, until I met a party of sick and wounded going down, from whom I learned that my poor husband had been killed in a skirmish only three days after I left. I then became so incapable of thought or action that I was taken down to Calcutta and carried on board ship almost dead, and from that day to the present, I have never heard of my only child till I saw you to-day, Captain Browne."

"You see, the stories tally to some extent; but I do not at present see any evidence that the dead child was other than yours."

"Neither can I tell why I feel my child is still alive; but I am as convinced of it as if my reason were as much convinced as my feeling."

"I fear much you will have to bear a bitter disappointment later, as a result of this impression. However, I will learn if I can what became of the woman, if you will permit me to call again."

"My dear Captain Browne, whenever you please. I have but one object in life -- to discover my child's fate. Now, go and find that woman to whom you gave my child."

"No, no, my dear madam; I must protest. It seemed so natural after the assertions of the sergeant that it should be hers, that I really never thought on the subject till the last few moments."

"And now, like me, think of nothing else. You gave her my child; restore him, and I will forgive you having given him away -- till then I tolerate and not hate you, because you can, and will help me."

"I swear, madam, I will find that child if alive, and prove to you how unjust you are."

"Do -- prove anything. Bring me evidence in any form, and I welcome you; leave the matter alone, take no trouble, and I will say you robbed me of my child. You will -- you must -- for his sake -- for my sake -- find out something. You have no child, nor have had; but I tell you that mother is happy who sees her dearest cold and dead, compared to her who weeps and fears for what she knows not -- a dead child? No, for it may not be dead. A living child? And if living, how? The torments of another world must he something of the same kind I feel now, only less. Now, good-bye. Bring news. Midnight is not too late, and cock-crow not too early. Bring none, and all times are alike too soon."

CHAPTER III.

"A NICE mess you're in, Captain Browne! You're in a mess, and I don't see how you'll get out. Why did you go near the widow to-night, like a great salmon on the first day you smell fresh water; and a widow too with a child that's missing? I really think, Captain, you'd better not go there again -- it's not safe. If you had no money or friends it would be another affair; widows are the fish for those who have them not, but for you with a fortune --!"

"Don't exaggerate, Larkins; it's not worth while calling 5000l. a-year a fortune."

"Not a fortune? What do you call it, Captain Browne? What do you call it?"

"Well, I call it genteel poverty."

"I'm sure I should be a richer man as a beggar, if you had the naming of incomes, than I am now under the old names for riches."

"I daresay. But the widow's charming. I was in love with her the moment I saw her, and then to have the luck of taking her down the country and doing the protective and heroic -- and the further luck of pulling safe through."

"And of losing her child?"

"Damn the child!"

"Certainly, with its proper dam. Nothing could be better."

"Now do be serious, Larkins, there's a dear fellow, and tell me what I'm to do."

"Behold me! I am serious; answer me first, What do you want?"

"To marry the widow."

"Good! Secondly, what is the obstacle? Be perfectly frank."

"The uncertainty of the child's fate."

"Good. Now for number three, (a) Can the obstacle be removed without a crime? (b) without what the world calls dishonour? (c) in sufficient time?" and Larkins told off the questions on his fingers.

"Categorically. -- (a) Yes. (b) Yes. (c) Yes."

"Very good. What do you want? Remove the obstacle and you have what you want."

"That's the very thing. How?"

"We must begin again. What do you want? To find the missing child. What is the obstacle in this case; where is the broken link, the vanishing point?"

"The woman Bridget."

"Good; trace her."

"She's dead -- I have."

"After that?"

"The child passed to a woman named Doolan, in the same regiment."

"Traced Doolan?"

"No, can't; came home, a widow with the child, and then I lose her."

"Good. The woman Doolan is the obstacle."

"Exactly."

"Now -- Crime, Honour, Time?"

"Nothing but time is against me."

"Advertised?"

"Yes."

"Detectives?"

"No, no; not criminal -- a private affair."

"Private Enquiry?"

"Yes."

"Result?"

"Seventeen Doolans -- nine children from three to eighteen -- all of good parentage -- but with nails as long as broad, if anything a little broader -- all with Doolan features. First two facts on Bible oaths with collateral evidence of cousins and aunts. Other results nil. Bill, six pounds a day for three weeks, Sundays included, and a promise of any number of Doolans."

"That's rather more than four pounds ten apiece, one with the other. I could do genuine Doolans ready to swear to anything at from twenty to thirty shillings each, collateral evidence and surrender of all rights in any one member of the family selected, included. We'd better try back and strike the trail again. What do you want? The child and not the woman, it seems to me."

"Don't care a curse for the woman, except as a means to an end; the finding of the child."

"Good. Captain, I shall make you a logician in time. Got any cards?"

"Cards? -- Oh, hang cards. Let's get a glimmer in this matter first."

"All right, my child, all right; cards used to be in the cupboard. Here they are. Now look, captain, here's a lot of cards; now pick me out the ace of clubs."

"Ace of clubs be -- "

"Don't swear, Browne, don't; I'm doing it for your good. I wish Locke or Bacon could see me. Pick me out the ace of clubs."

"What an ass you are, Larkins, to ask me to pick you out a card from among fifty-two backs all alike."

"What an ass you are, Captain Browne, to go looking for a child among fifty thousand children, and know nothing of the marks on the front of the card of such a pack. Turn over your cards, man; look at the pips. One child's like another child, only he has pips somewhere to know him by."

"Bight, Larkins, quite right. I forgive your calling me names, in consideration of your temper at the time."

"Now, captain, what marks?"

"Don't know."

"Go and see his mother; she knows every hair of his eyebrows, and has amused herself by counting them at times."

"That's so, Larkins. I'll go at once, this minute, and see her."

"Do; ask how she would know her child from another. No, how anybody else might know hers from another. She'll tell you she'd fed it was hers if you asked the first."

"All right, I'm off."

"Now, wait a moment. Ask, 1st. If any natural skin-marks, moles, and the like? 2nd. If any injuries or defects, scalds or a squint? 3rd. If any deformities, bandy legs, six fingers, three toes, or any little thing of that kind? Try and think she's charged you with having taken her purse in an omnibus; treat her like an interesting burglar, a la mode Old Bailey counsel, and know all she knows."

"All right. Come again soon. I'm off to see the widow."

"There he goes; a fine fellow hooked like a fish with a nibbled bait too. Men are awful fools, even the best of them."

* * * * *

The captain called on the widow, and asked her several questions, as prompted by Lieutenant Larkins, and was answered.

"Marks, Captain Browne? -- I should need none, a glance would tell me."

"No doubt; but I fear that I saw too little of him at that time to know him again readily, and then he was very young at the time too; not six months old."

"But more than four months."

"Well, there's a difference you see between a child of three months and one of eight years: so what I want to know is what permanent marks there are -- strawberry marks like the old tale, or moles, or scars?"

"He had none, except a little brown mole that I've kissed many a time, on his -- "

"Yes?"

"Never mind, it was of no consequence, it would not be likely to be seen, unless -- yon gentlemen don't understand. He had no marks that could be seen."

"Dr. Fergusson, ma'am."

"What's that you're saying? Who had no marks that could be seen, my dear Mrs. Weston?"

"My poor little Charlie, doctor."

"No marks? Why, if ever there was a human being on earth I could swear to dead or alive, that poor Charlie of yours would be he. Marks! pshaw, the child was positively branded. I'd swear to his skeleton if they only brought me the skull. You've forgotten the canteen sugar-basin."

"So I had, my dear doctor. I was so taken up with moles and that kind of thing, that I forgot it."

"What about the sugar-basin? You see I am not in the secret."

"Simply this, captain, that my poor dear husband had ordered a new canteen, and on the day it arrived he was showing it to me as I stood with the child in my arms. The child moved as I stooped and fell from my arms head foremost into the chest, on to the sugar-basin that was fitted into it, and the three feet of the basin dug little holes in the poor child's head."

"The most beautiful case of depression of the skull I ever saw," said the doctor. "I came in within ten minutes of the accident; had the child all night in less than half-an-hour; but he was marked for life after, with three of the prettiest circular depressions I ever saw. The bones had yielded like a piece of metal. The triangle lay base upwards, and nearly horizontal, one point on the posterior part of the parietal, the other higher up and nearer the frontal suture, on the same bone; and the last and deepest on the temporal, just above the ear. A beautiful case, captain; I used to put my fingers on the child's head for the mere satisfaction of feeling I had bad something to do with it."

"Of course the poor child suffered dreadfully, it's almost a blessing it did not live; it might have been an idiot."

"Indeed, captain, not a bit; the child was as bright and lively next day as though nothing had happened. Bless your heart -- you'd be astonished if I were to tell you how much you may knock a child's head about, and it be none the worse for it as for as we know."

"You think then you would be able at once to recognise the child if you could see these marks?"

"See them, man! I'm ready to swear to the child or his skull either, at any time, if you'll only put my hand on his head."

"Doctor, I'll hold you to your word. In less than six months I'll produce that child, if he's alive."

"Or dead, captain," said the widow. "If he be dead; in six months you can set my heart at rest."

"I don't know how, if he's dead."

"I can tell you. Send me Shedallah; I suppose he's below?"

"Yes; he can't forget his native habits. He's never far away from me. Talk of French or German valets! he's worth twenty of them."

"You'll lend him, then?"

"Oh, yes; treasure as he is."

"Send Captain Browne's servant up."

Shedallah entered, salaaming slightly to the two gentlemen, profoundly to the widow's sister, and most profoundly to Mem Sahib Weston.

"Shedallah, you remember telling us of the poor little child that you buried under the tree?"

"Yes, Mem Sahib, Shedallah remembers Chota Sahib very well."

"Do you remember if he had any marks on his head?"

"No lookee -- tink too much of other Chota Sahib dat open him eyes; other one gone -- no good -- bury him, take no much notice."

"Had he other any marks about him?"

"No marks, no. Shedallah know him any time. Shedallah see him; feel him; hear him. Shedallah not chew rice every day and not know him again. No, anywhere, any time, all the same, day or night, know Chota Sahib."

"Will you go back to India for me, and find the place where you buried the child, and bring me home his poor little -- "

"Mem Sahib not rain out of eyes -- no good -- make Shedallah feel lump in him throat -- no good at all. Yesterday Shedallah go away anywhere for Mem Sahib; cold; hot; short --  where -- long -- where all same; -- to-day Shedallah not go -- stop here -- can't go."

"Can't go, you rascal; I'll -- "

"All right, Sahib, all right. You good Sahib, but me can't go."

"And, pray, why not?"

"Shedallah in the street to-day, see what you call mob -- budmashes -- susti wallahs -- hackery wallahs -- sweeper wallahs -- chota budmashes -- chota susty wallahs. Shedallah go up; hear chota budmash cry 'Qui hye, nigger! Nigger!' Shout much 'Qui hye, nigger!' Then Shedallah see budmash push ayah in street; one look -- me in de middle -- knock him down -- big budmash with stick; then row. Ayah, Shedallah's mother! Then two Sahibs come -- yellow beard, brown face -- say in my tongue 'what matter?' when me tell Sahibs, Sahibs knock budmashes with fists; then call me 'gharry.' Say 'dam shame, dese English blackguards' -- all right -- drive on -- and me find Tara, and Shedallah, her son, in gharry. So Shedallah can't go; stay, take care of Tara, Shedallah's mother."

"Why, it's my old ayah he's speaking of. I'll take care of her, Shedallah, as long as she lives. I was obliged to part with her in India, but I can take good care of her now."

"Very well, Mem Sahib; then Shedallah go away, any place."

"Then go to India, and bring me home the body of that poor little soul you buried under the tree."

"But are you sure you can find it?"

"Yes, Sahib Captain, me find it."

"Why, you lose your way every day in London here."

"Oh, London all de same; brick boxes -- stone boxes; little holes to look out of -- all same. Big holes -- hang up shirt, carpet, meat, bread -- all same. Not same in wood; one tree long, one short; know tree -- know pass -- know where to find him; can't tell how. Like pigeon; take him in basket, let him out; him take one, -- two, -- three great flies round, then go away straight home. Cat  -- him same -- dog; -- him same; horse -- know him stable. Shedallah find everyting."

"I can help him, for I remember driving a broken piece of a ramrod into the tree in order to find it again if we had any occasion."

"Then you will go?"

"Yes, Mem Sahib, me go."

"And when you come back you shall ask of me anything; I will give it you."

"All right, Mem Sahib. Sahib Captain say 'go' me go; me not want anyting now, you take care of Tara, Shedallah's mother."

"And I'll go, too, Mrs. Weston. You say I've given away your child; I'll go and prove to you I was right; -- at least, I mean I'll not let you suffer this suspense any longer."

"No, you're not in earnest, Captain Browne. You don't mean it."

"I do; quite seriously. I'll go with him by the next mail."

"God bless you! Captain Browne; I shall owe you a life. You are in earnest?"

"Yes, most in earnest. I have, like you, but one object in life, and that is your happiness -- may I say Isabel?"

"Come back quickly and I will answer you; till then I have only one thought and cannot answer."

And so, with hope in hie heart, Captain Browne left for India to find the tree and the child's bones.

CHAPTER IV.

TARA proved an acquisition to Mrs. Weston, for to her she could talk unreservedly of the unhappy little one.

The captain kept up a constant correspondence with the widow -- so constant, indeed, that her sister remarked that it was always the way; widows always could pick and choose amongst the nicest men, whilst poor wretched spinsters like her could only take what was offered them or leave it alone altogether. To which the widow replied that she was not going to pick and choose, and that she never would marry again until her mind was at ease about poor little Charlie, and she didn't know even then. Whereupon her sister said that she did know, and Captain Browne thought he knew; on which the widow replied that she, her sister, was a wretch; and the sister replied that she, the widow, was, -- in fact, a widow; all of which evidently showed that the two ladies lived together in great happiness and concord.

It happened some three months after the captain's departure that the two ladies were sitting together as usual, and talking as usual, about the captain's journey, not about the captain, when Tara, with more than usual haste, glided into the room.

"Tara seen Chota Sahib Charlie, Mem Sahib."

"Good God! Tara, what do you mean? Where? Where is he? Who has brought him? Speak, woman."

"Sit down, Isabel dear. Don't rave; let us hear her, and try to make out what she says."

"Tara walkee in street; much bazaar -- much people. Hear tom-tom -- go see -- music wallah beat tom-tom with handle, -- strings, so," and Tara gave a dignified imitation of a person playing on the banjo. "Other music wallah pullee; pushes chota box -- make sweet noise; piccaninny Chota Sahib Charlie dance wid him face black like nigger, and two rattles in him black hands. Tara know him -- try get near him; then chota budmashes say 'Hooray! here real nigger -- no mistake;' then one say 'Let her go, it's Kid's mother.' All sorts things -- makee row; den Tara get hold Sahib Charlie -- nigger music wallah say 'Go way, old woman.' Tara 'sulted -- only fortee-tree -- not old dat. Den he pushes Tara, then Sahib Bobbee -- he come in black topee -- he say 'Move on, move on, go away woman -- not stop here.' Den all go -- music wallah -- Sahib Charlie -- all go. Tara follow till come many roads -- all full -- hackery nackery -- gharry --  horse -- big bus -- everyting. Tara wait; other Sahib Bobbee with black topee take Tara cross. Much walkee -- no see Sahib Charlie --  no see music wallah -- all gone."

"I told you, my dear, that child was alive."

"Don't be so silly, Isabel. How on earth would she know the child, with his face blacked, too, when she has never seen him since he was three months old? It's absurd; there's some mistake."

"No mistake, Missee Sahib; Tara see Chota Sahib Charlie."

"But how, Tara, how do you know?"

"How Tara know? Don't know; something here in breast say 'Sahib Charlie.' Me know noting -- English always how? -- how him sheep know him own chota sheep? Don't know how -- Tara know Sahib Charlie -- Tara know him all over -- washee -- dressee -- feelee  -- smellee; all not like -- one good, one bad  --  can't tell how know."

"That's the worst of it; these people all go back to their instincts when you want evidence."

"But, my dear, these instincts are often the best evidence."

"In this case the only evidence; and little enough."

"What Mem Sahib do to findee Sahib Charlie?"

"I don't know, Tara. What made you lose sight of him? but, of course, you could not help it. If Captain Browne were only here now I could ask his advice."

"Send for Doctor Fergusson; perhaps he might be able to help you."

* * * * *

"Most extraordinary thing, my dear madam, most extraordinary. I was actually stepping into my brougham to come to you at the very moment your note came; it is the most extraordinary thing."

"What were you coming round about, doctor?"

"A most singular story; it's almost incredible; but let me tell you, madam. There's a patient of mine, an old man who keeps a barber's shop at the East End of London I knew him years and years ago, at the hospital, he used always to be fond of being there; used to shave the patients, and in various ways made himself useful to us. He's not quite so bright as he might be; rather blind to his own interests; in fact, what we surgeons would call, somewhat of a dull blade -- only wants a little grinding and sharpening though, to make a notable man. He has a little back room, where I have often dissected animals. He's a thorough cockney. I remember I once wanted to ask him to let me have an arm in, for the dissecting-room was closed at four o'clock, and I wanted to finish it. 'No, Mr. Fergusson,' he said; 'not a harm nor a leg henters my place. Hanimals I don't hobject to; but the 'uman subject is sacred. Bring a helephant, if you like, Mr. Fergusson, and I'll welcome yer; but not a little finger would I have for my best friend.' He is a great phrenologist, too; the back room is full of casts of heads. 'Sir,' he used to say, 'I believe that 'air dressin' hain't been done justice to. If you ask me where there's a purfession has has wasted its hopportunities, I say it's 'air dressin'. When you come to think, sir, 'ow many 'eads a man has under 'is 'ends in a year that he can manipulate has he likes, and then think 'ow precious little of the science is known amongst the 'air dressin' purfessors, it's quite hamazin', sir, it is.' Well, I have had my hair cut by him for years, and he has always made me the depositary of his scientific experiences -- gone so far, indeed, as to ask me to write a preface to his proposed work on the relations of the inside and outside of the human skull. Last night he came to me to tell me that he had that day cut the hair of a child who had the most extraordinary developments he ever had handled. He's at my house now, and if you like I'll send round for him. I think you'd like to see him."

"It's about Charlie, doctor!"

"It is about Charlie, madam; but I won't spoil his story."

In a short time the old man arrived, and was soon full of his narration.

"He came in, sir, to my place haccompanied by his mother.

"'Mornin', mum,' says I.

"'Mornin', sir. I want my little boy's 'air cut and curled. I've 'eard of you in the purfession; and I want it curled tight like a nigger's; for you see, Mr. 'air-cutter, this little boy of mine -- '

"'Excuse me, mum,' says I; 'that there little boy is not your own little boy -- you're not his mother.'

"'Pray, 'ow do you know?' says she.

"'Mum,' says I, 'science 'as hits secrets. Hit's took me nigh upon twenty year to learn that you're not that boy's mother. I can't teach hit you in a minute; but that child's no more your child than I ham,' says I.

"'Well,' says she, 'I never said he was, Mr. 'air-cutter; so we needn't quarrel about that matter. You curl his 'air tight up like a nigger.'

"'Mum,' says I, -- purliteness goes a long way with females, sir; and I 'ave has large a female connection as hany man in my line, sir; so I halways says 'mum' to heverybody that's got a gown on, -- says I, ' Mum, hart is hart, and nater is nater; this child's 'ead haint fitted for that style of 'air.'

"'I can't help that,' says she; 'if I pays you my threepence, I expects you'll do what I want, hart or no hart,' them's her barbarous words.

"'Mum,' says I , 'a customer's a customer; if you was to ask me to shave his 'ead it should be done. Standin', as you appear to do, in "locus parentums" (I picked that hup at the 'ospital, sir), in locus parentums -- which means, you know, ladies "like a father," as the sayin' is -- If you'd horder me I'd shave his 'ead.'

"'I don't know nothing about locus parinthumbs,' says she; 'but if you mean standin' somethin' neat when you've done the job, and done it well, I don't mind; if you can send and fetch it.'

"The hawful hignorance of these lower classes is frightful, sir; as hif I wanted hanyone to stand hanything! And fetch it hin, too, to a shop like mine! If it 'ad bin a reg'lar ha'penny shavin' shop in Whitechapel she couldn't have said more.

"'Mum,' says I, 'I want nothin'; his 'air shall be curled like a nigger's.'

"'That's a good man. I'll leave my basket and humbereller 'ere beside 'is cap, and I'll come back for 'im hin a quarter of a hour.'

"'He'll be done, mum,' says I, ' without fail.'

"There that boy sat hon my stool -- we only use the chair for grown persons, becos then the 'ead's above the rail -- there he sat, sir; so says I to him as he looks at me sly like as I sharpened my scissors,

"'What's your name?' says I.

"'Doolan,' says he.

"'What Doolan?'

"'Jemmy Doolan, 16, Fox in the 'Ole Court, Whitechapel.'

"'And what do you 'ave your 'air curled like a nigger's for?'

"''Cause I'm goin' to be a nigger. I'm comin' out to-morrow along of Mr. Welks and the Windmill. Mr. Welks taught me the bones and the clog-dance; and I'm to 'ave 'ot sausages and baked taters hevery night for supper, I ham. There's Bill 'Arris in hour court, I see him last Sunday with 'arf-a crown -- a new un -- and. he stood pick wicks; but, then, he plays the banjo and sings.'

"'Well,' I thinks to myself, as I keep a lookin' at him, 'that boy's got it in him -- 'is mother must have been a clever woman in the hactin' line -- she must;' boys mostly, sir, 'ave their mother's 'eads and father's chins, as far as my experience goes. Thinks I, that boy's got a fine development. He's worth better things than that in good 'ands, sir. It's a great point in a boy's favour, is good development; but good 'ands to look harfter 'im and put 'im in the right track is a great point too. I've seen a good many good dispersitions go to the bad, sir, for want of good 'ands to shunt 'em on the right line of rails. What's the use of hexpress speed if you're not hon the right line? None at hall, sir. So I takes 'old of the boy's 'ed just for a feel like, for the 'air's a little in the way at times, more particeler among women, when I found, has I told you, sir, the most hextrahordinary development I hever met with. I remember the man with such a deficiency of conscientiousness that ran haway with all the money in the drawer hunder the shop-board, and arf his face lathered, when I left the shop a second or two; and I remember the American sailor-fellow, with the lumps behind his ears as big as two eggs, who cursed and threatened to murder me for squeezing his nose too 'ard when I was shaving 'im; but he was in that tremble, I couldn't 'ave shaved 'im at hall if I hadn't steadied him a bit. But I never met with such depressions on hany 'uman 'ed before; three distinct depressions, into which I could put the point of my finger, sir. One -- "

"It was my Charlie, doctor, you know it was. Where is he? Don't keep me in suspense, for God's sake! Take me to him, or I shall die!"

"How, be calm, my dear madam; be calm. The child shall be found."

"But you didn't let him go?"

"How do be reasonable, only reasonable. How could this man know anything of the matter?"

"Come now, Isabel, dear, let us listen. I begin to believe myself, so let us learn all we can; let him go on."

"How, my good fellow, go on."

"Well, sir, there was these three depressions, as I told you of, and I never see the like hon hany hother 'uman 'ed. Hof course I was hexcited, and I cut the child's 'air, and curled 'im tight with the tightest of curls; and his mother, I mean the woman, came in and paid for 'im and took 'im away; and as soon as I shut hup shop I came to tell you, doctor."

"That was last night, doctor?"

"Don't blame me, madam. Within ten minutes of my seeing Mr. Slade here a description of the child was in the hands of one of the smartest of the city detectives, who is having a month's holiday. He is a patient of mine, who has the curious taste not to like going out of town except on business."

"A thousand thanks, dear doctor. I am very fretful and ungrateful. You must forgive me, and, my dear sir, how can I thank you?"

"I've done nothing, madam, nothing. If you'd kindly let the young ladies of your establishment have these cards, they might patronise me. I can refer 'em to families in the neighbourhood, mum. Thank you, mum. Ho, I don't like money for nothing. Much obliged, mum; it hain't many twenty-pund notes I see; but I'd rather not; thank you all the same."

"But is there nothing I can do? Do let me do something."

"Well, mum, if it is your son, as you seem to say, and as I see no hevidence to the contrary in your developments, but rather the contrary, if there's one thing I might ask -- "

"You shall have it."

"It's honly to be allowed to take a cast hof 'is 'ed, mum. Most careful man, I hassure yon, Signor Brugiotti, mum, of Leather Lane -- most careful man."

"You shall have it."

"Thank you, mum. You'll let me know when you find the child.  Good-night, ladies. Good-night, doctor."

"There now, what do yon think of it now, doctor?"

"My dear madam, I'm convinced that child is your child, the position of the marks as he describes them exactly tallies with those on your son's head."

"Can I do nothing, doctor, but sit here and wait, and wait, when, after all these years, he may be within a mile of me? It's more dreadful than anything."

"I don't know what you can do."

"Cannot I go to the address the child gave?"

"That was done last night; it was a false one."

"What could make the child give a false address?"

"I should think that he'd been taught it. The woman, yon see, fears his being claimed by some one, and has taught him this to mislead any one wanting to trace him."

"I can do nothing, then, but sit still?"

"Yes, you can; it will keep your mind occupied if it does nothing else. You can roam about the streets and listen to the street music -- you may come across him."

"What, walk about, doctor?"

"No, you need not walk, I can send you an energetic, civil fellow, who drives a hansom; go about in that."

Great was the sensation when it was understood in the servants' hall that missis was going about in a hansom with that black woman.

Go about they did, day after day. Wherever the sound of a banjo was to be heard, there a fast-going hansom was pulled up and a lady in black stood up, and looked as if she meant to get out, and then sat down, and the cab drove off again.

A fortnight after Mrs. Weston's interview with the old barber, when on one of these drives, the Ayah suddenly touched her mistress.

"Mem Sahib -- him dere -- music wallah, tom-tom wallah."

The cab was stopped and the lady hurried out.

"Where's that child? Do, for God's sake, tell me. I'm his mother!"

"Will your ladyship walk into the bar?" said the landlord, who was airing himself in his shirt-sleeves at the door.

"Oh, thank you, yes."

The landlord remarked to a friend that night, "It was a good spec; she gave me a sovereign for the use of the room, and I took more than a pound in half-pints and glasses of gin, in their anxiety to just look at her."

"Now, do tell me, there's a good man, where is that child?"

"I've no objection, mum, at all; he was only with me about a week when he caught a frightful cold. You see it's hard work for a young 'un, that dancing and the bones, too; still me and my mate was bound to make it out of him; we gave the old woman seven bob a day for him, and, of course, as I say, we was bound to make it up somehow; still it was hard work, and after a week he got this cold and they got him into the Child's Hospital in Great Ormond Street, and that's the last I know of him; he was a nice little chap."

"Then he's there now?"

"Ah, yes, the cold he'd got on, would have kept a man down a month, let alone a youngster not eight years old -- Oh, thank you, mum, I'm sure you're very kind; me and my mate will drink your health in bumpers."

"Great Ormond Street, quickly. I've found him, Tara; I've found him!"

"All right, Mem Sahib, Tara know she see Chota Sahib Charlie dance in street."

The cab, fast as it went, seemed to crawl along.

"Do make haste, cabman."

"There's some one running after us, I think, he came out of your house as we passed, mum."

"Never mind; go on. Gallop."

At last they reached Great Ormond Street, and making known their desire to see "little Doolan" were shown into the office to wait for the nurse.

"Jemmy Doolan, ma'am; oh yes, a dear little soul, so patient and good -- he's very bad, ma'am, very bad. Sit down a bit, ma'am, you seem ill. He's not so bad now, but he has been very bad; inflammation of the lungs. We feared we should lose him at one time two or three days ago, but he's better now."

"Thank God! May I see him?"

"Oh yes, if you'll come this way. It's very kind of you to take such an interest in the little fellow."

"Interest, nurse! he's my child!"

"Your child, ma'am? -- you must be mistaken; his mother brought him here, a Mrs. Doolan."

"No, he's my child."

"Are you sure? It would be such a dreadful disappointment to you not to know him; he's very much altered, very thin and his head shaved. They'd so plastered it with grease and black that the doctor ordered it should be, as he was so feverish and light-headed."

"But, dear nurse, it is my child, though I've not seen him since he was four months old in India."

"Oh, ma'am, how do you think you'd know him?"

"Tara know him, Tara seen him; know him any place."

"Hasn't he some marks on his head?"

"Yes, three funny little holes, like -- "

"Oh, nurse, God bless you; take me to him, it is my own little Charlie."

"There's a man outside with a telegram for the lady who came in just now; the cabman says it's for her."

Mrs. Weston tore it open and read:

"Calcutta -- Isabel -- we have found the body -- there are no marks on the head. It was your child left India. Home next mail. Will bring the body with us."

"I knew it, I knew it; take me to him at once."

There could be no mistake. The instant they entered the room, Tara's quick glance fell on a little thin face with great eyes.

"There Chota Sahib Charlie."

"Don't shock him, please ma'am. Break it to him gently; he's not very strong. Please be as calm as you can, it's so bad for the children to get excited. Jemmy!"

"Yes, nurse."

"Here's a lady come to see you."

"All right, what does she want?"

"It's I, Charlie dear; your mother -- your own mother!"

"That's gammon. My name's not Charlie, and you're not my mother. You're a swell; my mother's name's Doolan."

"She's not your mother."

"Oh, no, I suppose not; only I don't know any other."

"But I am your real mother."

"Well, if you are, please don't squeeze me quite so hard, ma'am -- it hurts my chest; and don't cry, there's a good lady, don't cry. I'll be your child if you don't cry; I am a good boy, so don't cry."

"Won't you kiss me, Charlie?"

"Yes, I don't mind kissing you; you smell so nice, and your lips are smooth. Have you brought me anything? the other mother does. No? Never mind; next time you will. I say -- you won't want me to go out niggering with Wilks and the Windmill, again? -- don't, it's dreaful hard work, both together, dancing and bones."

"No, no, my darling, never any more; you shall come to my nice house, and live with me."

"I can bring my guinea pigs? Who's that black woman? She made a row in Regent Street the first day I was out, and set the bobbies on us. Wasn't I tired that night! What do they have for supper at your shop? Hot sausages and taters, eh? Don't you like sausages and mashed taters? Your husband's dead, I know, cause of that white thing round your head, under your bonnet. Mrs. O'Flanagan had a bigger one than that when old 'peg leg' was buried. I say, ain't it a funny thing your being my mother! I wonder what Mother Doolan will say. Where do you live? Up some swell place -- Islington or Clerkenwell? Have you seen the holes in the side of my head -- look at 'em -- rum, ain't they? As if some one had chucked three marbles at me very hard. I say, nurse, may I have some drink?"

"Yes, and you must say good-bye to your mamma, and she'll come to see you any time."

"Oh nurse, mayn't I stay a little longer?"

"I think you'd better not, it will over excite him; but I'll ask the superintendent."

Wisely the superintendent refused to allow her to stay.

"He will be fit to move to-morrow, and with the doctor's permission you shall take him away; but of course it must be with the consent of the woman, Doolan."

"Are you going away, mother? There don't cry -- kiss me if you like; and -- I say -- mind and bring some oranges and cakes to-morrow. Good-bye -- I'm tired, I shall go to sleep."

And so she left her long-lost son.

The doctor saw the woman Doolan and succeeded in inducing her to tell the truth for a consideration. She said that the woman, Bridget, after hearing of the death of her husband, had taken to drinking and gone to the bad, and had taken the child as a means of extorting money in the future. When dying, she had told Doolan all about the matter, and entreated her to restore the child. That she, Doolan, didn't very distinctly understand whose child it was, and had offered it to one person, whose it was not, and had then resolved to do her best for him and herself, by bringing him up to earn his own living, in what she thought a respectable way of business, and that she, Doolan, was quite ready to swear to these facts on her most sacred oath, and was very much obliged to Dr. Fergusson, and would set up a shop in the general line, "which have always been the hoight of my hambition, doctor."

The folks at Great Ormond Street gave their consent, and the widow and Tara went in solemn state, accompanied by Doctor Fergusson, to fetch home the hero. Whereupon his mother put him in the daintiest little bed in the world in her own room, and fell down and worshipped her little image most unceasingly, and he in return began to love the sweet-scented lady who called herself his mother, and who permitted a guinea-pig to run about, even on his bed.

And then, when the mail came in, the dry bones were handed to the doctor, who at once pronounced that the skull was essentially and entirely of the Bridget type, and there was then added to the list of worshippers yet another worshipper who became servant, slave, and master, to the high-priestess, in a very short time; a circumstance which caused less surprise to the friends of the family than the formal announcement, which was made some short time later, that the doctor himself being wearied of single blessedness had decided to allow the aforesaid noble example and had, without anyone's knowledge, quietly engaged himself to the late widow's sister. It is needless to say that a life-like cast of Master Charles's head adorns the collection of the venerable hair-cutting professor.

Likewise it is needless, but pleasant, to state, that the very large amount that figures in the yearly subscription list of the Hospital for sick children, under the name of "A friend, per Doctor Fergusson," is the gift of the happy mother of "Chota Sahib Charlie."