CHAPTER I.

TIDINGS FROM MEERUT.

The tidings brought by the wounded officer, were in every way calculated to excite the greatest consternation amongst those who heard him.

Thirty-four miles distant from Delhi, is the town and station of Meerut, where Kate and Mellon meant to spend the first few days of their honeymoon, prior to taking the railway, and afterwards the steamer, for Calcutta.

It is a place of great antiquity, but the vengeance of Timour has left little to interest the eye of the visitor, save some great Mohammedan tombs, one of which is a beautiful mausoleum, and known by the somewhat poetical name of the "Resting-place of Abu."

Two miles to the southward lay the cantonments, with the dwellings of the English judge, the collector, and other officials.

There were quartered Her Majesty's 6th Dragoon Guards, or Carbineers, six hundred strong, but only half of those men were mounted, and on very wretched horses; a battalion of the 60th Rifles, one thousand strong, a battery of Horse Artillery, and a few recruits; but the native troops outnumbered these by a few hundred bayonets, and consisted of the 3rd Bengal Light Cavalry, the 11th and 20th Regiments of Bengal Infantry.

Few could have conceived that when the strength was so nearly equal, the Bengalees would have dared to revolt, yet ninety troopers of the 3rd Cavalry, when ordered to practise with the new rifled carbine, refused to touch the cartridges, and by order of Major-General Hewitt, were instantly tried by a court-martial, and sentenced to ^imprisonment with hard labour, for six or ten years, according to circumstances, while their comrades looked on in ominous silence, for by this sentence which manacled and made them felons, they lost their caste for ever.

This was on Saturday, the 9th of May, and we have shown that the sepoys of Meerut were in secret communication with those at Delhi.

On the Sunday evening following, while the British troops and civilians were in church, the sepoys of the 11th and 20th -- the former a corps with nearly a hundred years of history, and which served long ago at Guzerat and Bhurtpore -- assembled riotously upon the parade ground, about six o'clock, evidently intent on disturbance, and many officers courageously and confidently hurried among them, to endeavour by their influence and presence, to arrest the tide of mutiny.

Among others who made themselves particularly active, was Colonel Finnis, of the 11th (whose brother, at that very juncture, was Lord Mayor of London), a brave and amiable officer, who when in the act of haranguing his men, was shot by them in the back, and hewn to pieces amid fiendish yells, as he fell from his horse.

Bigotry, combined with a desire of vengeance for many a sentimental wrong, was hot in the hearts of these men, and blood having inaugurated the revolt anew, the mutineers gave way to the most dreadful excesses. The 3rd Cavalry broke open the jail, which was two miles distant, released their sentenced comrades, together with two thousand two hundred other felons, thieves, dacoits, Thugs perhaps; troopers, police and convicts, all fraternised and rushed to join the Infantry; and then ensued the indiscriminate slaughter of their officers, and every other Christian, without respect to age, rank, or sex, amid shouts of -- 

"The raj (rule) of the Feringhees is past! The century of their power is ended! Is it not so written in the books of our prophets? Deen! deen!"

The bayonet and the butt end of the musket, the sabre and the more terrible tulwar were at work, and deeds of awful infamy were perpetrated; poor little children were hewn to pieces, torn asunder, or brained before the eyes of their agonised parents; women were outraged again and again, ere they were slaughtered, riddled with musket balls, or gashed by bayonets; and every indignity that the singularly fiendish invention of the Oriental mind could suggest, was offered to the dying and to the dead.

Meanwhile, other sepoys and thieves were busy pillaging and firing the houses and bungalows. Great pyramids of lurid fire ascended, roaring into the starry sky, assuming various hues, according to the nature of the material that was consumed, red, purple, and yellow, wavering and blending together; the noise of the spreading flames, and the crash of falling houses, mingling with the death shriek of a hunted victim, and the diabolical yells of the mutineers, most of whom were maddened by bhang, or intoxicated with the liquors of all kinds they had drunk.

"I was dispatched by General Hewitt," continued the officer, who narrated these startling tidings to Brigadier Graves and a terrified auditory, "to bring down the Europeans from their barracks, which lie -- I may now say lay, as they are probably destroyed -- at some distance from the sepoy lines. By the time I got there the darkness had come on; but we could see the flames of the burning town and cantonments.

"The Queen's Dragoon Guards mounted -- at least as many as had horses -- and rode forth with me at once, but the night air became so thick and dense, with haze, smoke, and impalpable dust, that we knew not which way to turn, and so went many miles astray at a gallop, before we discovered our mistake. Overhead the moon was shining like a gas-lamp in a London fog.

"Ere long we caught a sight of the conflagration again, and making a flank movement round it, came upon the parade ground, where the mangled corpses of Colonel Finnis, and many other officers, were still lying, and there we found the Sine Battalion and the Horse Artillery, awaiting orders, while in the darkness and confusion, the mutineers had given us all the slip, and, after being glutted with slaughter, and laden with plunder, were on the march for Delhi.

"I accompanied the Dragoon Guards, and some pieces of flying artillery, in pursuit, and we picked off a few of the scoundrels who had loitered in the rear of their comrades, weary with excesses, or stupefied with bhang. With my own hand I cut down five or six, till a sowar of the 3rd Light Cavalry hit me in the arm by a pistol shot, and then some of the sepoys I had wounded, clung like tigers to the bridle and girths of my horse, in their wild endeavours to drag it and me down together.

"By the delay incident to this, I was separated from the Queen's Carbineers, but I could hear the booming, and see the yellow flashes of the artillery, which had unlimbered, and opened fire upon a thick copse, in which it was thought some of the mutineers were lurking. Many a heavy iron shower of grape and canister shot swept among the mangoes with a terrible sound of tearing and crashing, but killed no one, for a very simple reason, -- there was no one in the copse to kill.

"The mutineers were in full march elsewhere, so the commander drew off the troops to protect the station from a midnight attack, while I, by making a long detour towards Jullalabad, and trusting to the strength and speed of my horse, after spending some twenty-four hours in the saddle, have only arrived here now, in time to warn you, Brigadier, that Delhi will be instantly attacked, so, for Heaven's sake, see at once, to the safety of all Christian women, children, and sick."

Such was the weary messenger's rapid narrative of that terrible outbreak at Meerut, where, by a series of the most fatal and senile blunders, on the part of the executive, a great community of Christian people perished helplessly, brave officers by the hands of their own men, while so many delicate, innocent, and honourable English women, wives and mothers, were horribly maltreated, ere they were consigned to one bloody holocaust with their children -- and all this, as they were returning on a Sunday evening from the House of Prayer!

The third act of that terrible drama, "the mutiny of the Bengal army, began with a great success. The mutineers burned down a camp, and murdered officers, ladies, and children, literally in the presence of a superior force of European soldiers;" superior, considered in a moral sense.

If such deeds of horror occurred yesterday at Meerut, what might not occur in Delhi to-day, when the native garrison was so vast, and the European force so small? This was the terrible question asked by every heart in secret.

It was towards Delhi that all the mutineers of India turned their faces and their hopes, for there, on its vaunted peacock throne -- that wonderful royal chair, the precious stones of which, Tavernier, the traveller, a jeweller by profession, valued at one hundred and sixty millions of livres -- sat the lineal descendant of the magnificent Shah Jehan, the founder of the great mosque at Delhi, and above his palace there still waved the green banner of the prophet Mohammed.

Before the wounded fugitive from Meerut could get his wounds or his wants attended to -- the poor man was half-dead with fatigue, thirst, and want of sleep -- and before any plan for the permanent safety of the white women and children had been devised, Colonel Rudkin, who had gone forth to reconnoitre, came hurrying back to Brigadier Graves, to announce that "a cloud of white dust, with the glitter of steel, was visible on the Meerut road, descending the slope towards Tahurpoor, and that no doubt could exist, but that it was the mutineers, approaching the Doab Canal, and the pontoon bridge of the Jumna!"

CHAPTER II.

KATE'S WEDDING DAY.

"Harrower -- dear Jack Harrower," said Lena, in a voice of touching earnestness, taking his right hand in hers, as he grasped the bridle and mane of his horse with the left, "help Mellon to protect my poor papa and sisters from peril; oh, save them if you can, for we have none to look to here but you and him!"

Mellon was now her brother-in-law, so the conjunction of names was not without its charm.

"Protect you? I shall do all that man can do, and if I fail to save, I can at least die with you all; but matters have not yet come to so bad a pass as that with us," he added with a smile to reassure her; "come, Rowley, here is your nag; we must mount and ride, old fellow."

"To your posts, gentlemen," cried the brigadier; "Colonel Rudkin, ride to the Chief Commissioner and desire him to have the city gates shut. Colonel Ripley will march the 54th Regiment, with two field guns, at once to the Cashmere Gate; the 38th and 74th to form the supports, and take up an alignment along the road. Let the Flagstaff Tower be prepared for the reception of all women and children, and therein we shall place our most reliable troops, your company of the Queen's 32nd, Captain Harrower, and your detachment of the Bengal Fusileers, Mr. Mellon. But, in the first place, you will also march to the Cashmere Gate. Bring into the Tower also all Indo-Briton women and children, lest they, poor creatures, pay dearly for having some European mixture in their blood. Ride, gentlemen, quick -- you have not a moment to lose! I would to Heaven," added the Brigadier, "that all our women and little ones were safe beyond the Calcutta Ditch, and that we alone were left here to face those fellows with the bayonet and those greased cartridges they pretend to make such a fuss about."

"Aye, General; but I would rather that all we love were far away on the blue sea, the high road to old England," said Dr. Weston; "but God's will be done -- God's will be done," he added, clasping his hands, "here as in Heaven!"

"In less than an hour, ladies, you shall have a hundred British bayonets round you," said Harrower, cheerily, as he mounted his horse.

To the small force of their countrymen under their joint command, did he and Mellon look chiefly for the protection of those they loved, through the black and disastrous time that seemed now at hand; and Harrower thanked Heaven from his heart that chance, the mere turn of military duty, had thrown him into Delhi at such an eventful crisis.

"Bring your double-barrelled rifle back with you, Jack," shouted Dicky Rivers. "By Jingo! I should like to have a shy at the Pandies with it, for I can sight it to half a hair's breadth."

Not foreseeing exactly all that was to ensue, the total subversion of all civil and military authority, the Westons, prior to going to the Flagstaff Tower, like many other persons, hastened to their own houses to change their attire, perhaps to secure their valuables; Mellon kissed his wedded bride, and galloped after Harrower, whose powerful horse was already careering along Delhi street, past the long frontage of the magnificent palace, past the magazine, where the brave and energetic Willoughby was getting several pieces of cannon loaded and judiciously pointed, but as the two rode on, they became aware that the mockery, the jeers, and the maledictions of the copper-coloured rabble followed them.

On reaching the parade in front of the British Lines, they found their junior officers, who not having ladies to attend to had preceded them, getting their men under arms. Dillon had the detachment of Fusileers collected, and Harrower thanked his lieutenant, Frank Temple, a smart and soldier-like young lad, with a sharp eye and determined manner, for having all the men so speedily collected.

"Get your ammunition loose, lads, we'll need it all before night," said he. "Temple, tell them off by fours, and I'll be with you in an instant."

Intent on securing his mother's miniature and the Bible with her autograph, "Mary Trevanion," he rushed to his bungalow, but his household goods were gone! Ferukh Pandy had anticipated the events of the day, and with the other native servants had made the rooms bare, for they had looted -- literally swept -- the place, and left nothing but the punkah and the dining-table. Even hookah, pipes, cigars, and all were gone, and with a malediction on his lips, Harrower hastened to rejoin his men, galloping along the front of the lines, which are more than a mile in length; and where the Native Brigade were noisily swarming out of their bungalows, red-coated and cross-belted, and falling in by companies and battalions.

Already almost ignoring the British officers, Pershad Sing, senior sergeant of the 54th Native Infantry was calling out -- 

"Fall in, Mapert-Ka-Pultan" -- (for this was the pet name of the corps) -- "fall in! Soubadars, look to your companies, -- and glory to Brahma this day," he added, shewing the ruling thought.

"Fall in, Balunteer-Titteelee-Ka-Pultan!" cried the Soubadar Major of the 38th, a corps having dark green facings, with "Seringapatam" and "Puuniar" on their colours; and with something like a roar of defiance pervading their ranks, the regiment formed in battalion; for ever since 1852, when it was ordered by Lord Dalhousie to Pegu, it had been stubborn, insolent, and dangerous in composition, though styled "Volunteers."

The 74th (save one, the youngest regiment of the Bengal army) remained tolerably quiet, and even cheered Brigadier Graves when he passed them on the march; still, like the rest, they were not the less resolved to betray and murder him and every other white man ere the sun set on the tomb of Homaion.

The little band of Europeans, one hundred in number, under Harrower, Mellon, Doyle, and Temple, in light marching order, issued at double quick from the Cantonments, notwithstanding the heat of the May evening, and that some of the men were carrying on their shoulders a child sometimes, as well as their rifle -- his own little one, perhaps, or it might be a comrade's, whose wife had her arms already filled.

Harrower was not without fears, though Colonel Ripley and other Bengal officers laughed at them, that they might be intercepted and cut off; yet out they came from the camp at a steady run, and unmolested, though scowled at by the sepoys, and on they went, down the road towards the magnificent city, the towers, temples, and domes of which were bathed in gold and crimson hues by the sun, which was now in the western quarter of the sky. They passed a bazaar, a mosque, the house called Ludlow Castle on their left, and then proceeded right into the angle of the formidable ramparts, where the Cashmere Gate and bastion of the same name are, and from every point the natives mocked and reviled them.

Prior to this, at the Pirghyb Mosque, which stands distant about a mile from the walls, Harrower halted his men, to rest them, for they were sorely blown; but that no time might be lost in a crisis so pressing, he ordered them to load and cap their rifles.

After this, as they marched past the Flagstaff Tower, which was already full of ladies and children, a drummer and fifer of the Cornish Light Infantry -- two mere boys -- struck up cheerily the absurd air, "Slap, bang! here we are again!"

This was done by Jack's order, to inspire some confidence in those who heard it, and such indeed was sorely wanted at a time when the horrors of the Meerut massacre were fresh in the minds of all; thus many a Christian mother and timid girl looked anxiously, with all their hearts and souls, at that little band of red-coats, in whose weapons and bravery all their hope of preserving life and honour lasted.

With very different emotions did they survey the three strong masses, also in red, but with dark and grim visages, which after a time came debouching in successive columns of sections down from the cantonments, with their drums beating, the barrels of their sloped muskets and their fixed bayonets guttering in the sun, and with the British colours flying.

They were accompanied by a vast mob of camp-followers and other natives, among whom could be seen the dervish Falladeen, with his serpent and iron-shod staff, whirling like a spinning-jenny at times, and many a Hindoo Fakir, the most conspicuous of these being Gunga Rai, who alternately stood on his head, or rolled with singular velocity horizontally along the ground, covering himself with bruises, dust, and ashes, in his progress.

Just as Harrower, to await further orders, halted at the Cashmere Gate, a tall and powerful horseman, of wild and furious aspect, wearing an old Light Cavalry uniform, a white turban, of capacious dimensions, and armed with a tulwar, dashed through it from the city, and rode at a break-neck pace round the Moora Bastion, towards the Jumna.

This excited individual was Shumshoodeen Khan, who had mounted a horse stolen from Colonel Rhys, and was now gone to join his old comrades of the 3rd Cavalry.

Uttering seditious and exciting cries, he was pressing on towards the river, when he was suddenly confronted by Colonel Rudkin, who was returning, on duty, from the house of Sir Theophilus Metcalfe, which stood about a mile north of the city.

The Colonel called upon him to halt and surrender; instead of doing so Shumshoodeen fired a pistol, which wounded the horse of Rudkin, rendering the animal furious and quite unmanageable. With louder and more defiant yells, the powerful savage rode round and round the Colonel, with tulwar uplifted, while shrill cries of alarm and intense commiseration rose from the many ladies who saw his perilous position from the ramparts of the Flagstaff Tower; and among these was Lena Weston, who, with her opera glass, beheld the exciting encounter, and with a pallid face and terror-stricken heart, recognised Rudkin.

She could see the very expression of his features, which were colourless and excited, with set teeth and stern eyes, as he kept his sword on guard, and interposed between his bare head (for he had lost his hat while endeavouring to soothe his frantic horse with his maimed hand) and the tulwar -- a cross between a sabre and a butchers' cleaver -- which armed the fierce Shumshoodeen Khan, whose dark visage was actually empurpled by the cruel joy that sparkled in his eyes.

A sudden and united cry arose from those in the tower, as Rudkin's bleeding and wounded horse fell under him, and what was worse, partly on him! The man was lost, and all rivalry between him and Harrower about to end for ever!

With a shout of defiance, Shumshoodeen brandished his tulwar towards the Flagstaff Tower, and then towards the Cashmere Gate, so much as to say, "Look here, Feringhees, and see what I shall do!"

"Your rifle, Phil Ryder," said Harrower, snatching it from his sergeant, and quickly adjusting the slide of the back-sight; "what's the distance, do you think -- about six hundred yards -- eh?"

"I should think as that ere was about it, sir," replied the other, coolly, as he closed his right eye, and held up the thumb of his left hand at arm's length.

Harrower levelled the rifle over the saddle of his horse, and shot the nag ridden by Shumshoodeen. It must have been hit in the head, as it lashed out wildly with its hind legs in the air, and tossed the noseless Brahmin full upon his cranium, with his feet towards the sky, while Rudkin was vainly striving to free his right leg from the superincumbent weight of his dying horse.

"The devil!" said Jack; "am I nervous today, that I miss the crow and hit the pigeon> in a quiet pot-shot like this!"

But in a moment more he was in his saddle, and galloping to encounter the baffled mutineer, whose weapon had fallen from his hand, and whom the recent shock had somewhat bewildered, a fortunate thing for Rudkin, who must have been hewn to pieces ere Harrower could come to his rescue.

"Rudkin beset and about to perish," was Jack's heroic thought; "I shall save him -- save him for Lena, even if I should die in his place," and he spurred his horse to the rescue.

On seeing him approach, however, Shumshoodeen Khan uttered a howl of baffled rage, sprang over some garden walls, and disappeared. Harrower assisted the breathless Colonel to rise, and dismounting courteously, gave him the assistance of an arm, as they proceeded towards the Cashmere Gate in silence. The Colonel was perhaps mortified and humiliated, and would rather have owed his life to any other man in India than John Trevanion Harrower.

The latter, though glad that he had saved him from a miserable and sudden fate, could not but feel that he was doing so perhaps for Lena, thus his satisfaction was dashed with bitterness. lie was sure that one of the little English bonnets that appeared above yonder grim bastion was hers, and that one of the many white handkerchiefs now waving in applause of his courage and generosity was waved by her.

"By Jove! you've done a plucky thing, Jack!" said Mellon, patting the horse's shoulders, as Rudkin and Harrower came slowly in.

"Brigadier Graves," said the Colonel, "I trust you will keep in mind, in the dispatch of this day's work to His Excellency the Governor General, that to Captain Harrower, I owe my life, and I have known a man get the V.C. for a smaller matter."

The Colonel had regained alike, his presence of mind and his habitual smile; he said -- 

"But for the wound in my bridle hand, which I received at Barrackpore, and disabled me from controlling my horse, I might have taught yonder scoundrel a severe lesson -- a sowar I think -- at least, he rode like one."

"A deserter from Meerut," said Harrower, with a little smile, for though the Colonel was a tall and strongly built man, he was personally no match for the Hindoo.

Ere the General, who was now in undress uniform, with a telescope slung over his shoulder, and a solar-topee on his head, and who rode a strong, active horse, could reply to Rudkin, or compliment Harrower, a shout that rang along the whole extended line of the city walls, was responded to by another more faint and distant, and a body of cavalry were seen riding confusedly down towards the bridge of boats, by which the Jumna is crossed, just where the new causeway leads southward round the palace walls, into the great street, which bears the uncouth name of Chandney Choke.

Clad in silver grey, with orange facings, these were some of the blood-stained troopers of the 3rd Light Cavalry, who preceded the other mutineers now advancing along the Meerutroad; as they came on, they had slaughtered cruelly many British subjects whom they met travelling dawk, (i.e. post) and now, with the confidence of being welcomed and expected, they appeared with brandished swords, in front of the royal city of Delhi!

The Commissioner had not arrived, and so the city gates were not yet shut.

The General assumed the command of the native Infantry, and sent Harrower's Englishmen into the Flagstaff Tower, to protect the women and children, who had flocked there in great numbers, like affrighted doves, to one common nest.

Then Dicky Rivers, who being on leave from the 6th Bengal, having no particular post, had arrived with Kate, Lena, and little Willie, together with the Miss Leslies and every other white woman and child he could cram into the doctor's carriage on the way.

Dicky was in a state of tremendous excitement, full of boyish courage and enthusiasm; he saw nothing in it, beyond a fight, "and before the eyes of all the ladies too!"

"Why hang it, Harrower, where's the double-barrelled rifle?" was his first question.

"Stolen -- some scoundrels had looted my bungalow of everything to the bare walls, before I got there."

"Then," grumbled Dicky, "I shall join your fellows, with a common rifle-musket. There are the Pandies at the bridge of the Jumna, by jingo!" added the boy, his handsome English face flushing as he spoke; "by the living jingo, whatever that may be, I'll certainly knock some of them off their legs -- I was a prime bowler at Addiscombe!

"I fear, Rivers, you'll have shooting enough to last you till the rainy season sets in," said Doyle, in whose keen Irish eyes, there was something between a smile and a glare; "we shall have tonight, a mighty fine tomasha, as these fellows call it."

"And what do you call it in Ireland?"

"A row -- a shindy, my boy."

"But where is Polly -- where is Doctor Weston? asked Harrower, sheathing his sword, and looking round.

"Do you not know?" asked Lena in a voice of sudden alarm and misery.

"No, I have this moment come down from the lines. Are they not here?"

"The kitmutgar Assim Alee told us that they had set out for this place more than half an hour before us, and they have not yet arrived. Oh! Harrower, what awful calamity can have happened to them? Where can they be? What shall we do? My father -- my own papa -- our dear Polly !" added Lena and Kate together, embracing each other in floods of tears.

Harrower was very much perplexed and distressed; he knew not what to think or say.

"Can they have fallen into the hands of the rabble?" asked Rivers with a pale cheek.

"Impossible, Dicky!" said Harrower, with some asperity; "the streets are all in possession of the Native Infantry, the King of Delhi's people under Bulli Sing and the police. Your papa must have lost his way and taken shelter somewhere with Captain Douglas, with Mr. Jennings, the chaplain, or perhaps with Willoughby in the Magazine."

The last suggestion was not a lucky one, and made their hearts tremble.

"In the Magazine!" said Kate with blanched lips.

"Oh! go out and see -- go out and search, like a dear good soul, Jack," urged Lena.

"Impossible, Lena, you ask me what I dare not do."

"Dare not, even for me?"

"No, I dare not leave my post -- neither can Mellon, or any of us."

"Why?"

"Without orders at least. The gates of the tower are closed and barricaded, and my duty keeps me with you and my men," said Harrower sadly but earnestly, while the two sisters wrung their hands in silent misery; so leaving Mellon to explain, and to console them, as best he could, Harrower hastened away to place his Light Infantry men and the Fusileers at all the most important and available loopholes and embrasures.

CHAPTER III.

WHAT BECAME OF POLLY.

While his daughters in tears and alarm, were hastily changing their wedding bravery, for more sober and serviceable dresses, and were secreting about their persons such jewels and valuables as they possessed, knowing well that the moment they left their comfortable and elegant mansion, it would be looted or robbed by the native servants -- perhaps by those they had cherished, fostered and protected most -- the doctor summoned his kitmutgar, with an umbrella, as the sunshine was still very hot, and issued forth into the streets, in search of further or surer intelligence, or to see what means were being taken to defend the vast and populous city against the approaching force of desperadoes.

"Beware, dearest papa!" cried Lena anxiously from her bedroom window as he left the house, "be cautious, I beseech you, for the streets are full of tumult."

He waved his hand to her, and passed on his way, little foreseeing that this was the last time that beloved voice would ever fall upon his ear!

Many a poor parent in our Indian cities, endured the horror that now beset the heart of gentle old Doctor Weston -- a horror and anxiety that the mind may imagine, but which no pen can pourtray.

He had seen his three daughters, the dark eyed and quiet Lena, the bright blonde Kate, and the golden haired, and laughing hoyden, Polly, growing up like blooming flowers by his side, day after day, increasing in beauty, modesty, affection and worth, each of whom might be a crown of glory to some good man -- for they were happy and true hearted girls -- girls such as old England glories in producing. They had filled his heart with joy, all the more that each seemed all unconscious of her natural charms and native goodness; and now in the full bloom of their young lives, for what a fate were they perhaps reserved!

He thought of the ladies at Meerut and his blood ran cold! Lena, Kate and Polly -- what might they not endure, amid those black and yelling hordes, who were now in full march, flushed with rapine, crime and slaughter? He prayed of God, in his inner heart, that if they could not be saved, that death might fall on him and them at once, and all together, in any form He pleased.

He knew well that many more years could not be in store for him; but his heart bled for his children; he shuddered at their probable fate, and in anticipation, the iron entered his soul! For himself, he had neither fear nor feeling; he knew that the young may die, but that the old -- must. Yet the 'sudden death' that might come upon them all, was, he knew, that affliction which he had prayed and petitioned against, in the form prescribed by the English litany, for years. Often he had repeated it as a mere matter of form; but it had a terrible significance now -- very different from the sound it bore in the quiet old village church of Thorpe Audley.

On all sides, and in every street he passed through, excitement reigned supreme, in booths, bazaars and shops, but especially in Chandney Choke, or the Street of Silver, for there were all the plate-smiths and dealers in precious stones, jewellery and bullion, and there is one street at least, similarly named, in almost every Indian City. None knew what might be the issue; but all who possessed property, feared they might be plundered of it, for there were thousands of ragamuffins,* porters or coolies, discharged bheesties, peons, deserters, and syces, and others, who looked forward with exultation to the total subversion of everything like law and order.

Mounted officers rode hurriedly to and fro, with unmistakeable anxiety in their faces, and Lieutenant Willoughby had still influence sufficient, through the force of discipline, perhaps, to make the native workmen at the great Arsenal, place several pieces of cannon into excellent positions, and double load them with grape.

Colonel Patna Rhys, and others, with their families in carriages, passed at a rapid pace towards the Cashmere Gate, and they loudly urged the Doctor to lose no time in getting the ladies of his household conveyed there in safety, too.

Impressed more than ever, by all this unwonted bustle and alarm, Doctor Weston, when near the college, and St. James's church, (more than a mile from his own house) turned to retrace his steps, but a vast mob of excited natives of the lowest class and caste, came holloing wildly along the street, barring his way. In the midst of them, towered a black and lumbering elephant, with a red flag flying from a staff stuck in the howdah on its back; seated therein, was a Hindoo Fakir of the Senessee tribe, who had long resided under a ruined arch, near the tomb of Homaion, and who, as a voluntary penance, had more than one iron ring, inserted into the most tender parts of his flesh.

This religious lunatic by frantic gestures, and a harangue in Oordoo, was inflaming the passions of his hearers to the utmost extent; and among the advancing mass, the gleam of arms and knives could be seen.

Seriously alarmed on perceiving this noisy multitude, which, in consequence of his clerical character, would be almost certain to assault and slay him, when a soldier or civilian might be permitted to pass unharmed, Doctor Weston paused irresolutely, and turned to his kitmutgar, who suggested that their safest mode of returning would be along the front of the king's palace, where none would dare to molest them.

"Sahib," added he as a sudden idea seemed to strike him, "I know a quiet little alley by which I can lead you between the Selinghur Fort and the palace gardens, and through it we can escape all these people."

"Thank you, my good fellow," replied the Doctor, in Hindostanee; "then let us lose no time -- to your guidance I commit myself."

The Doctor, who had but a vague idea of that quarter, knew not that the alley indicated had no other outlet than the water of the Jumna, followed his servant; but they had barely proceeded twenty yards, when they encountered a Mohammedan dervish, armed with an iron-bound lathee, or club. He stopped and confronted them, and Doctor Weston, who had some vague idea of having seen this personage before, endeavoured to pass with a bow; but Hafiz Falladeen -- for it was he of the serpent and of the tattered and filthy orange shirt -- was not disposed, at this critical juncture, to part company with his professional rival, the Feringhee padre.

The opportunity was too good to be missed!

"Salaam," said the poor Doctor, vainly endeavouring again to pass.

"Salaam, Sahib," said Hafiz, with a mock genuflection, but with a ferocious smile, as his talon-like fingers, which grasped his club, trembled with the hatred, fanaticism, and cruel joy that filled his heart, to find that one whom he deemed an intruder, an interloper, a preacher of heresy and false doctrine, and a polluter of holy places, was in his grasp and at his mercy on such a day of turmoil and confusion, when the green banner of the Prophet, and the golden jerryput of the Moguls, were about to be unfurled, side by side, on the Palace walls of Delhi.

"You will have the kindness to permit me to pass," said the Doctor mildly, in Hindostanee, on seeing with alarm that the other was resolutely barring the way; "I am in haste to reach my own house, and if money -- even a golden mohur -- "

"And I, too, am in haste, but to reach the cantonments," said the dervish in his harsh, gutteral voice, while the expression of his dark face, daubed as it was with streaks of brilliant ochre, and surrounded by his coarse, matted, and heavily-greased hair, grew something absolutely fiendish in expression; "yes, the cantonments," he repeated, "for those are coming from thence, and others, from where the Tomb of Abu lies at Meerut, who shall teach you Feringhees a terrible lesson."

"I do not understand -- "

"Ha! the salt you have eaten for the hundred years since Plassey, is now to be cast in the dust and trodden under foot -- do you understand that? Ere long you will call on the rocks to fall down and crush you; on the earth to open, or the hot sands to rise up and cover you; but in vain, for ye shall be smitten both hip and thigh, and not one shall escape the sword of the avenger, for the attempts you have made, for the destruction of our religion and the confusion of castes."

"You are wrong, my brother," the Doctor was beginning, when the dervish, with a yell, exclaimed -- 

"No brother am I of yours, dog and infidel!"

"You are wrong, and all who think with you are wrong," said the Doctor, with great earnestness, and turning to his kitmutgar, as if to seek even his intercession and assistance in this unpleasant rencontre, but the Bengalee looked on with a stony eye and a cruel grin on his mouth. "We have no desire, my worthy friend, to interfere with any of you in religion or caste, least of all such as I, whose mission it is to teach that we should all love one another as ourselves, and dwell in peace and good-will with all mankind; striving also to inculcate that which would expand your minds, raise all the mental faculties, refine and dignify your tastes, give you a thousand sources of pure and intellectual employment, make you love one another, and adore one great and munificent Deity."

Poor Doctor Weston! he might as well have expatiated on the Greek participle, the integral calculus, the philosophy of the infinite, or the electric telegraph.

"Is the padre sahib a liar, who, as such, shall hang in hell by the tongue -- a liar as well as an expounder of false doctrine?" yelled the dervish, flourishing his lathee, after spinning round with a marvellous velocity, that seemed to combine all the gyrations of harlequin, columbine, and clown in one; "will he tell me that it is not true that the Queen of England has cast dust into the eyes of the King of Roum and of General Napoleon, and that she should have her tongue slit, like the witches of Cashmere; and has she not intrigued with the great Lord Sahib Bahadoor at Calcutta, to make all Mussulmans and Hindoos, even as the Christians, who are infidels, and spit upon holy things?"

Unfortunate Doctor Weston shook his white head hopelessly, and again endeavoured to pass; but again his frantic brother of the cloth barred the way, saying -- 

"The zemindars of Oude can raise a hundred thousand soldiers, and these alone, when led by the Maharajahs, the Rajahs, the Chiefs and Talookdars, could sweep you into the Ganges, and Oude is to all Hindostan less than a finger is to the hand. Yet, for its annexation, dearly shall you pay, accursed Feringhee!"

"Alas! of all these things I am as innocent as of the atrocities of Timour," urged Doctor Weston; "and I trust that not again, as in his time, the Destroying Angel may spread his dusky wings over Delhi."

"Is the Sahib a liar," resumed his tormentor; "and will he deny that the great Lord Sahib at Calcutta and the Koompanie mean to slay the learned and the holy men, and to bribe the sepoys -- the pious Mussulmans and the high-caste Brahmins -- to defile themselves by biting cartridges greased with the fat of the pig -- a forbidden and unclean thing? Many have died by the bullet rather than do this, and many more shall die; but the symbols have gone forth and passed over all the land; the chupatties have gone from mosque to mosque, from village to village, from city to city, and from barrack to barrack; and at holy wells, and by the Ganges, the Jumna, and the Indus, men, as a covenant with their fellowmen, have drunk the sacred waters from the leaf of the holy lotus tree -- the same tree which Mohammed saw in Heaven near the abode of delights; and the time is come when -- as it was written in the books of the Prophets -- the Feringhees shall perish, even to the white suckling that hangs by its toothless gums upon its mother's breast -- smitten all, as I now to death smite thee!"

And ending his peroration with a hyaena-like yell, the dervish swung his iron-bound lathee in the air, and, full upon the head, struck the unhappy clergyman a dreadful blow, that stunned and stretched him on the earth, bathed in his blood.

"Quick !" cried the dervish to the kitmutgar; "ere the slaughter begins, bring hither one of his daughters at least -- the youngest if you can, and remember the promises made and the order given by Mirza Abubeker, on that night of council in the Dewan-Khana."

Through a postern gate in the palace garden wall, which formed one side of the alley, they dragged the insensible form of the poor doctor, whose pale face and white silver hair, were all dabbled with blood, and there they cast him roughly on the gravelled walk. The kitmutgar then appropriated his watch, rings and purse, and hurried away to ensnare at least one of the daughters, as directed, while the cruel and fanatical dervish said, -- 

"Here I shall await you for half an hour, before hastening to where I am sorely wanted -- at the sepoy lines."

The rascally kitmutgar was soon at the house of the Westerns, where he found the elder sisters, busy with Dicky Rivers, into whose care and ample courier bag, they were consigning many articles of value, while Polly was wandering in a very bewildered way through the outer and inner drawing-rooms, as if she knew not what to preserve, or what to abandon, for her household lares were there; and then with many a low salaam, and while keeping his palms meekly folded together, the valet approached her and whispered in his broken English, -- 

"Oh, Missee Pollee -- oh, Missee Pollee!"

"What, what is it?" she asked with alarm at his manner; "what do you mean, Assim Alee?"

"Your papa -- padre Weston Sahib."

"What of him -- where is he?"

"Oh, Missee Pollee! oh, so ver' terrible!"

"What is terrible? where is papa?"

"Out there, not ver' far, but he wantes you, oh! so much -- so ver' much!"

"What -- he wants me -- how?"

"He is ill -- ver' ill -- oh! so ill in the streets; come with me, he wantes you."

Trembling and pale, Polly called once or twice in great alarm to Lena and Kate; but as they did not hear her, and as the valet, whom they considered a very faithful fellow, urged that her father wanted her alone, she snatched her shawl, bonnet and parasol from a sofa where they lay, and ran hurriedly out of the house, following the kitmutgar, who contrived to send another servant to Lena with a message to the effect that "the Doctor Sahib and Missee Polly had gone to the Flagstaff Tower, on the road to the Pirghyb Mosque," intelligence which certainly rather bewildered the two young ladies, as they could not conceive it possible that their father would look so sharply after his own safety and Polly's too, without consulting theirs.

Once out in the streets, which were full of wild and excited tumult, poor little Polly Weston -- who had never been there afoot before, but had always ridden or driven -- was compelled to confide in the protection of the kitmutgar, though she almost instantly repented of her imprudence in not seeing Lena and obtaining also the escort of her cousin Rivers; but anxiety for her father, of whose illness or accident, and of whose particular desire for herself, she could obtain but a very confused account from the wily valet, spurred her on, and it was not until she found herself past the Bank, which in former times had been the residence of the hideous little hooknosed Begum Sumroo, and her adopted son the miserable Dyce Sombre (whose bribery caused the disfranchisement of Sudbury) and so far from home as to be close to the Calcutta gate, and under the very walls of the king's palace, that her heart began to fail her, even though she had by her side, one who had been her father's most trusted and faithful servant, since they had landed in India.

Could she but have seen the contents of that faithful and enterprising fellow's pocket!

As they turned into the narrow alley between the garden wall of the palace and the Selinghur Fort, the impatient and expectant dervish Hafiz Falladeen suddenly appeared; she shrunk close to the side of the kitmutgar, and actually clasped his arm, but the ruffian shook her off with a shout of derision, and fled. Then, with a shriek of terror, the poor girl found herself in the grasp of the Dervish, deserted, alone, and in a narrow place, between high, black and frowning walls.

She felt as if in a dream; in the distance was a hum of sound, the united clamour of many thousand voices rising from the streets, amid which she could detect the occasional beating of a drum, the note of a British bugle, the roaring of a gong, and the clanging of the bell of St. James's Church; but her fluttering heart died within her, and her knees bent under her, as the grasp of the hideous dervish tightened to a tiger-clutch on her delicate arm, and his keen, fierce and sensual eyes gloated over her fair face, her golden hair and wonderfully bright and beautiful complexion.

A sudden thought seized her -- a flash of hope.

She tore off her white kid gloves, even that one which Dicky Rivers found it so difficult to button, and unclasping her bracelets, and drawing off her rings, among others, that which Harrower had given her, she placed them in the hand of Hafiz, and said, -- 

"Take these -- take them all -- but oh! lead me to a place of safety, to my father's house, or to the Flagstaff Tower."

He scarcely knew what she said; but he pouched her ornaments however, with a grin of satisfaction} and there was at that moment an expression in his eyes, which we can only describe by the word carnivorous, that made the girl shudder, for the dervish paused to consider whether he should destroy her for the sake of her valuables, lest she should accuse him of robbery, keep her for her wondrous beauty as his own spoil, or sell her, as he was bound to do, to Mirza Abubeker.

The latter conviction, in which religion, lucre and duty oddly mingled together, triumphed, and he proceeded to drag her towards the postern in the garden wall, within which, her father, now in a state of half consciousness, was lying.

"Death without good works before it, is doubly death," said Hafiz, "and one of my good works shall be to lead you to a place of safety."

"And to my dear papa," she added imploringly, for she understood his gibberish so far.

"To the padre Weston Sahib?"

"Yes, good man, to my papa if you know him."

"Yes, yes."

"Oh, thanks -- thanks, how shall I ever thank you?" asked Polly with a heavy sob and many tears.

"Trust yourself to me, Mem Sahib," said the dervish, "I am called Hafiz, because I have read the entire scriptures, and the hundred and fourteen chapters of the Koran; but I have read more, and I know word for word the precious writings of Saadi, the Persian, he who wrote 'Gulistan,' and what says he? Three sages once debated on which of all the evils of life was the greatest; 'old age oppressed with poverty,' said one; 'pain endured with impatience,' said a second; 'death without good works before it,' said the third, and with him I agree," added this curious compound of fanaticism, lust, hypocrisy and greed, as he struck with his lathee on the postern door already referred to.

It was opened; Polly saw a magnificent garden amid a blaze of sunshine beyond, and when the iron studded postern closed again, she was a hopeless prisoner in the palace of Delhi, and in the immediate grasp of the Soubadar Baboo Bulli Sing!

"Is she safe?" asked the kitmutgar, who had been loitering at the end of the alley.

"Yes -- safe as if she was under the seal of Solomon, or in the seven fold hands of Vishnu, which you believe in more, perhaps," added the dervish, as he hurried off to the sepoy cantonments, and in these terrible hands the poor English girl was left, for this was one of the "good works" of Hafiz.

Long ere she could fully realise the misery, or the full sense of her situation, as she sat on the grass, with her father's head on her lap, while he lay, half insensible, between life and death apparently, the dervish, Hafiz Falladeen, was among the lines of the Native Infantry, preaching sedition, and urging slaughter, with a success equal to his wishes.

CHAPTER IV.

THE FLAGSTAFF TOWER.

Brigadier Graves having resolved upon a defensive policy, had, as already stated, selected the Flagstaff Tower, as a refuge for the women and children, who now became the chief objects of solicitude. Situated on high ground, north of the Cashmere Gate, it is circular in form, built of bricks burned in the sun, and is of considerable strength.

All the Europeans, however, were not there, as a large party of officers and ladies were -- unfortunately for themselves -- collected in the main-guard, which adjoins the Cashmere Gate, and to these two points many delicate English women, in their silk or muslin dresses, with little Parisian bonnets, all far too small to shield their soft faces from the scorching sun, were hastening now, as we have elsewhere said, like doves scared by the approach of a flight of fierce, black vultures.

The resources of the Brigadier were great, for Delhi was full of the material of war, and if but five hundred men remained staunch to him, he had no fear for the result of an assault from the mutineers of Meerut; but the events which occurred within the city, after the arrival of the revolted battalions, have never, and can never, be presented in a very consecutive form, so dreadful was the massacre that ensued, and so little did the few who escaped it, know of aught that happened beyond their own observation.

There in the Flagstaff Tower, were a terrified flock of women of all ages, many with their children, and all gazed with blanched faces on the sepoy lines, whence came, they feared, their foes rather than their defenders. Many of these females were mere girls, some were recently wedded brides -- though none so recent as Kate -- and some there were, who in a short time, would certainly be mothers.

Fresh from their happy and peaceful English homes, though the wives of soldiers (or civilians), they had never heard a sound of strife, or seen other indication of it, than the mimic warfare of a field day at Chatham, or in Hyde Park; and now with pallid lips apart, and eyeballs strained, they found themselves face to face with death, as they watched the scene from the Flagstaff Tower, and with the terrors of Meerut in their hearts, prayed in silence to God, for courage and coolness -- for aid and succour for their husbands and children.

With shrill yells, and brandished swords that gleamed in the sunshine, the 3rd Light Cavalry boldly crossed the bridge of boats by which the Jumna is spanned, and rode round the north flank of the Selinghur Fort, right into the city by the Calcutta Gate, and instantly commenced the work of destruction, by setting fire to the houses, and cutting down every European they met. The wild cries that rang in the streets, and the sight of the smoke and ascending flames, filled with growing fears the hearts of those in the Flagstaff Tower, and caused restless glances of peculiar import to be exchanged along the ranks of the Sepoy Brigade, which was under arms between the Tower and the Cashmere Gate.

On went the mutinous troopers. A little dispensary near the fort was plundered, and there Chimmun Lall, a native doctor, was shot. On seeing the Commissioner, Mr. Simon Fraser, driving his buggy in haste towards the palace, to procure, no doubt, the influence of the King, Mohammed Bahadoor and his sons, they dashed after him with wild halloos. Fraser -- a bold fellow -- faced about in his buggy, and shot the nearest pursuer in his saddle, but ere he could cock a second pistol, twenty sword blades were drawn reeking from his body. His head was then hewn off and borne away in triumph.

Halting at the palace gate, they demanded of Baboo Sing to see Captain Douglas, the commandant of the guards. That officer came resolutely forward, sword in hand, to remonstrate with them, but was instantly shot by Shumshoodeen Khan, and was horribly mutilated by others. Dismounting now, several rushed upstairs to his apartments, within the royal palace, and finding there the Reverend Mr. Jennings, chaplain of the station, and his daughter, a young lady possessed of great beauty, who had recently come from England, and was about to be married, they butchered them both -- the father perished first, despite the shrieks and entreaties of the daughter, who threw herself on her knees before them, but knelt in vain, for she too perished, after being subjected to indignities "which a Mohammedan would consider the worst and vilest his own wife or daughter could suffer."

Everywhere now, magistrates, merchants, clerks, judges, collectors, indigo planters, their wives and children, were surrounded by a sea of slaughter. The bank was plundered, and the manager, his wife, and their five children, put to death by the singularly cruel mode of having their throats slowly severed by pieces of broken glass. The office of the Delhi Gazette was demolished, the press thrown into the Jumna, the types were used as slugs, and the printers and compositors were literally hewn to pieces.

Believing their father and Polly to be somewhere in the city, Lena and Kate became dreadfully excited, though Harrower said everything he could imagine to convince them that they must have found shelter somewhere.

"But oh, why should they have left us?" was their constant question, to which he could but reply:

"It is impossible to say, amid the sudden contingencies of such a terrible day as this."

The noise and hubbub were increasing fast, for now the mutineers of the revolted 11th and 20th, with all the released convicts, felons, police and rabble of Meerut, were passing across the pontoon bridge of the Jumna, which swayed and surged in the stream beneath the rush of their feet, and then they passed cheering, with bayonets fixed, through the precincts of the palace, the gates of which were thrown open to receive them; and soon after, between the mainguard and St. James's Church, the 3rd Light Cavalry came riding towards the Cashmere Gate with yells of

"Deen -- deen and dhurrum!" -- (faith and religion) -- "death to the Feringhees! down with Koompanie Jan and Jan Beol! death to the Lord Sahib Bahadoor! Why should his people rule over us, when we are a thousand where they are but one? Death -- death -- their raj is at an end!"

"Advance, Ripley, and cut these fellows off!" said Brigadier Graves.

With two field guns and the 54th Regiment marching in perfect order, the Colonel advanced resolutely towards the Cashmere Gate, where, by a long before preconcerted plan, the whole rank and file of the battalion, after flatly refusing to fire, rushed to one side, leaving in the centre of the way their line of officers, at whom the cavalry made a furious dart, cutting some down, or firing their pistols right into the eyes of others, amid shouts of

"Shabash! shabash!" -- (well done! well done!)

Colonel Ripley shot two before he fell covered with wounds, but calling to his men in Hindostanee, with his last breath -- 

"Mapert-Ka-Pultan -- my children, my children, beware of treason! beware of falsehood!"

It was just as the sergeant, Pershad Sing, had stated on that night in the Dewan-Khana, the 54th would not assassinate their own officers, but had not the least objection to look quietly on while any other corps did it for them, so by this villanous quibble thus perished poor Colonel Ripley, Captains Smith and Burrowes, Lieutenants Edwards, Waterhill, Butler, and others, while the 38th and 74th stood still in their ranks; and it must have been a time of the keenest anxiety to their officers, whose turn was soon to come, for in those ranks of dark and sombre visages, those black and gleaming eyes, no ray of mercy or of human pity shone.

The 3rd Cavalry, all of whom were in their full uniform, silver grey, faced with orange, many of them wearing silver medals, now dismounted and went through the ranks of the 54th, fraternising and shaking hands with them, while Pershad Sing seized the Colonel's horse, taking the reins actually out of his dead hand, and assumed command of the regiment.

"Ah! good Heavens, they are firing, and -- and men are falling!" cried Flora Leslie, covering her eyes when this terrible scene began.

"The villains! the work of murder has, indeed, begun!" exclaimed Harrower, who was looking through his field-glass, and could distinctly see the whole details of the butchery of the 54th officers, some of whom were slain almost in the presence of their wives and children, who were in the Flagstaff Tower.

Horace Eversly alone escaped, but was followed by a young trooper, who seemed mad with bhang and fury. Sorely pressed by this fellow and on foot, with only his sword, Eversly, who could look for no aid from the other two regiments, halted and turned upon his pursuer, who tried to dash his horse right over him, but he sprang nimbly on one side, and as the horseman passed, drove his sword right through his body.

The young Sowar had evidently considered himself invulnerable, as he wore upon his swordarm a Mohammedan amulet -- a verse of the Koran -- to guard him from evil; but Eversly's sword went clean through it and his body together, and then the horse galloped away towards the Pirghyb Mosque, with the body dangling in the stirrups, while Eversly hurried breathlessly into the Flagstaff Tower.

"Mellon, didn't Eversly show genuine pluck there?" said Harrower, ere he joined them.

"Yet how often we laughed at that fellow when he first joined the 54th, with his straw-coloured kids, and his face pearl powdered in the hot weather."

"Well, you see that a dandy -- even a snob, as we deemed him -- may show true British pluck at times."

"When bothered to desperation," added Doyle.

"Welcome, Horace," cried Dicky Rivers; "by Jove! you put that Pandy's vital pump out of order in splendid style!"

Eversly came among them looking pale and breathless, his uniform torn and splashed with the blood of his poor brother officers, whose corpses were lying unheeded on the roadway, while their men now rushed to join those of Meerut, who were still pouring fast into the city through the walls and gates of the royal palace.

Now came the roar of cannon from the arsenal, and a storm of musketry replied.

Every boom of a field-piece, every crashing volley, every sharp ring of an Enfield rifle, caused a pang in the hearts of those poor women and girls who were penned up like sheep in the Flagstaff Tower, each might be the death-blow, or each fiendish Indian shout might be the knell of one they loved; and Harrower's men leaned on their loaded rifles, and looked grimly and impatiently on, like caged lions, each peering through a loophole with a frown on his sun-burned visage, as he surveyed the long white line of the city wall, where now, wreathing up between the slender minarets and gilded domes, the smoke of the conflict and of many a burning house ascended into the clear atmosphere.

Amid all the excitement and horror of this scene, the slaughter of the poor fellows of the 54th Regiment, at whose hospitable mess they had spent so many happy evenings, Harrower and Mellon had but one thought, one anxiety, how to save the women committed to their care, and more especially the two Westons, for they knew and said to each other that if the 38th and 74th revolted next, all hope would then be over. All would inevitably be lost!

CHAPTER V.

THE MASSACRE.

With wild cheers and shrill halloos the Infantry Mutineers had passed through the palace into the city, under the very eyes of the aiding and abetting King of Delhi, Mohammed Bahadoor Shah, of his sons Mirza Mogul and Mirza Abubeker, and his grandson, while Baboo Bulli Sing had now unfurled the royal jerryput -- the long unused royal standard of the Mogul dynasty, which had never been displayed since 1803, when Sir Arthur Wellesley -- the future Duke of Wellington -- swept the Mahrattas from the plains of Assaye, and conquered Delhi and Agra.

The brave and resolute Willoughby was in the arsenal, which stood midway between the college and the royal palace. All the natives of the establishment had deserted to the mutineers, and he was left with only three British soldiers, yet he had all the gates and approaches closed and barricaded, for he was resolved to defend his post to the last, as he well knew that the magazine of Delhi was one of the most important in India, that it contained three hundred pieces of cannon, twenty thousand stand of arms, two hundred thousand shot and shell, with a vast quantity of powder, therefore he was determined to blow the whole place up, rather than allow all this valuable material of war to fall into the hands of the rebels.

Inside the gate leading to the magazine, he had planted two cannons, loaded with grape; a single British soldier stood by each, with orders to fire them, the moment the barrier was forced; and then to join him within the magazine, where he was posted with only one other European!

These four men, isolated in that perilous place, continued to load and fire the cannon of the arsenal, round after round, steadily as if on parade, sweeping the approaches thereto, though a heavy fire was opened on them within fifty yards, by a horde of fanatics, led by the dervish, the Fakir Gunga Rai, and several native officers; many fell, but the two former seemed to have charmed lives.

"Glory to the God of Islam, and glory to the Prophet!" shouted the dervish, brandishing his lathee; "cut the white-faced Feringhees to pieces!"

But Willoughby did not give in, until he and his three companions, were all more or less wounded by musket balls, when, after killing by grape and canister, more than five hundred of the assailants, he gave the order to fire the magazine!

The train was lighted, while he and his three companions, worn with fatigue and bleeding from wounds, escaped by the sally-port that opened towards the river, and unseen reached the troops who were still under arms near the Cashmere Gate.

Ere this, the entire roof of the arsenal seemed to rise into the air; a broad sheet of bright coloured vapour, that from flaming yellow deepened into lurid black, shot upward like a pyramid to the sky; there was a mighty roar as if the earth was splitting, while the ground shook and trembled beneath the feet of the 38th, and 74th, at the Cashmere. Gate, as the powder exploded and thousands of casks, rockets and live shells went off with a stunning and ear-deafening sound.

Then save for the noise of falling stones and fragments of iron, clods of earth, and the shattered corpses of many of the assailants, all seemed to become still, while a dark and vapoury cloud rested over all Delhi, and through it, the slender minarets and gilded domes of the palace, and the great mosque, seemed to glimmer in the red light of the evening sun.

The explosion of the magazine now drove the 38th, and 74th, into open mutiny.

The Mohammedan war-shout of "deen! deen!" rang on all sides, and the sound of shots followed, as the soldiers of the older regiment proceeded deliberately to shoot down their own officers, and the piercing cries of these poor men, were echoed by the lamentations of the ladies in the Flagstaff Tower.

Major Abbot, who commanded a wing of the 74th, was a special favourite with his soldiers, and he implored them to follow him, and save the perishing officers of the 38th.

"It is no use, Major Sahib," said they sullenly; "they are all killed now -- we can save none but you -- you at least, shall not die."

They then threw themselves in a circle round him, interposing their own persons between many a bullet and bayonet, as they hurried him away from the city gate towards the now deserted cantonments, and at that moment a number of carriages and buggies were seen being driven at full speed along the road that leads to Kurnaul.

"These are some officers flying for their lives," said the sepoys; "follow their example, while there is yet time -- we can protect you no longer."

"You will at least give me the regimental colours?" said Major Abbot, who was full of sorrow and mortification.

"Take them," said they, and mounting him and a captain named Hawkey on one horse, they left him, while the other wing shot down every officer, who failed to make his escape.

As the right wing fell back towards the city, it received from Harrower's men in the tower, a rattling volley, which tumbled them in heaps over each other, killed or wounded.

Bleeding, and well-nigh exhausted, poor Lieutenant Willoughby endeavoured to reach Meerut, but fell into the hands of some villagers, said to be Pindaroons, who put him to death with the utmost barbarity.

The horrors of the Delhi massacre were pretty similar to those which occurred in nearly all the great cities and stations throughout Bengal; but the destruction of the Europeans was more complete. The banks, the rich silver-shops in Chandney Choke, and all public offices, were plundered. Many fugitive Europeans who took shelter in the gardens of the palace were discovered, bound to the trees, and shot or sabred, by order of Baboo Sing.

The women were always stripped of their clothing, treated with every indignity, and then slowly tortured to death, or hacked at once to pieces, according to the fancy of their captors. Poor little children were dashed on the pavement, ripped open, or quartered alive by the ferocious 3rd Cavalry (a corps chiefly of Mohammedans), and, like other mutineers, they were barbarously studious that such cruelties should be inflicted before death closed the eyes of their fathers and mothers, who were always slaughtered next. "No mercy was shown to age or sex. Delicate women were stripped to the skin, turned thus into the streets, beaten with bamboos, pelted with filth, and abandoned to the vile lusts of bloodstained miscreants, until death or madness terminated their unutterable woe." To possess one drop of European blood, or to be suspected of being a Christian, was sufficient to ensure a merciless death.

While chaos reigned in Delhi, where the roar of many a conflagration, mingled with the shouts of riot and despair, while volumes of dusky vapour hung over it like a thunder cloud, and while all perished who failed to escape or find temporary concealment, Harrower's Enfield rifles protected the women and children in the Flagstaff Tower, ignorant, however, that a few others were lurking in the main guard, near the Cashmere Gate. But though his men fired on every native, without distinction, who came within their range, and very efficiently kept their own vicinity clear, he was not without great anxiety, as the evening progressed, that the place might be assaulted by the united forces of the mutineers, who could bring several batteries of artillery against it, or use the great scaling-ladders, with which they had been most amply supplied by Mohamed Shah, from the arsenal of the palace.

And now, with all his anxiety, there swelled up in Jack's tough English heart something of the glorious enthusiasm of a crusader, a knight of old, fighting for Christian women and helpless children against infidels and savage heathens -- the enemies alike of God, of humanity, and innocence.

All who could procure carriages of any description freely shared them with others; thus many had fled by the Kurnaul road, while Harrower's men, by a fire from the tower, even at ten hundred yards range, effectually prevented any decided pursuit.

"Don't spare the devils, but let us kill the whole rookawn of them, if we can!" said Doyle, whose keen Irish eyes were sparkling with the fire of excitement and genuine courage.

"Jack's men, with their long Enfields, certainly play old gooseberry with every Pandy who comes within a thousand yards of them. I saw Sergeant Ryder knock one nigger over at eight hundred yards, and he must have been hit in the head, for he jumped like a buck as he fell; but it is horrible work this!" added Rivers.

"Hah! the Pandies can use the greased cartridges now, without compunction or fear of losing caste, the lying scoundrels!" exclaimed Harrower, grimly.

"They hate us as a monkey hates snuff, or as the devil hates holy water, so don't spare lead on them!" shouted Doyle, as a few mounted sowars, in the silver-grey uniform, appeared near the tower, riding towards the cantonments; "level low, men, for some of these Enfields dthraw more than eight pounds on the thrigger."

Doyle's brogue seemed to become deeper as he grew excited.

"The moon will soon be rising," he added; "and then, by the great hill of Howth, we'll have a lovely night for fighting the niggers!"

Though many ladies had effected their escape towards Kurnaul, and quitted the tower in safety, others yet remained, and among these were Lena and Kate, for two reasons. Their carriage and horses had been stolen by the native driver, and neither of the sisters could be prevailed upon to seek refuge in flight with other friends, while a mystery hung over the fate of their father and Polly; moreover, in spite of all he could urge, Kate insisted that at such a juncture her place was by her husband's side.

Almost the last who drove away from the tower for Kurnaul were a medical officer and his wife -- the former with his jaws shattered by a musket shot, with which a sepoy of his own regiment had favoured him; and about a dozen of ladies, with several children, alone remained in Harrower's care, when the hour of six in the evening tolled for the last time from the distant spire of St. James's church.

CHAPTER VI.

THE CASHMERE GATE.

Just about the hour mentioned, a cart, drawn by a team of bullocks, and escorted by a few fugitive white drummers of the Sepoy Brigade, a mounted officer and some civilians, all looking grimy, bloody, scared, and bewildered, passed northward near the Flagstaff Tower. Colonel Rudkin rode beside it.

"What is in the waggon?" asked Harrower, who came to the gate of the tower.

"Hush!" said Rudkin, stooping from his saddle, "it contains the murdered officers of the 54th."

The cart was covered with the silk and muslin skirts of ladies' dresses, but a pale and bloody face, or limb, protruding here and there, told in unmistakable language the appalling and ghastly nature of the load beneath.

"Are all the corpses in that waggon those of the 54th men?" asked Harrower, with uncontrolable anxiety.

"All -- some are cruelly mangled; but why do you ask?"

"No matter," replied Harrower, somewhat curtly.

The truth was that his mind was full of dread that Dr. Weston and Polly must have perished by that time, and might perhaps be in the terrible holocaust brought by Rudkin.

On learning what were the contents of this ghastly waggon, the tears, cries, and lamentations of the ladies in the tower were excited, and Eversly, almost the sole survivor of his brother officers, was roused to a pitch of fury.

Harrower lifted one of the dresses, and looked for a moment at the pile below. The faces, the voices, the jollity of past happy hours, came sadly and fiercely back to memory. Dead now, and gashed horribly with many a wanton wound, they yet seemed very calm and still, each man with the seal of God on his brow, and the coming night alone to keep vigil over them.

"Well, Captain Harrower," said Rudkin, with his cold habitual smile, "for those who love soldiering for the mere fun of the thing and pay fancy prices for their commissions, sub rosa, by Jove this is a change with a vengeance!"

Harrower with a sigh, let the bloodstained skirt drop, and turned with some irritation of manner to the colonel, who, before he could speak, said: -- 

"Brigadier Graves desires me to give you a special order, to be executed with care and decision. You will draw off your men, and escort the ladies here, to join others who are now at the Cashmere Gate."

"Heavens!" said Jack hopefully ; "Dr. Weston and Polly may be there!"

"I think not -- at least I have not seen them," replied Rudkin; "we are instantly to retreat -- to abandon the place and endeavour to reach Meerut, where the Queen's Dragoon Guards and a battalion of the Rifles are still cantoned."

Rudkin then wheeled round his horse and galloped off. Even at that crisis, he had perhaps no wish to see the face of Lena Weston again.

The dusk was closing in now, and night would come on at once. Harrower by sound of bugle drew off his men, and brought all the ladies out of the tower, surrounded them with loaded rifles and fixed bayonets, and repeatedly the brave fellows strove to assure the ladies, that no danger could accrue to them, while one of them had bullet in his pouch or remained alive.

Harrower gave his arm to Lena; Kate was, of course, with Mellon and Rivers, while Sergeant Ryder carried little Willie on his shoulder, and almost every second soldier was encumbered by the care of some one's child or valuables. All the poor ladies were bewildered and terror stricken, and behaved like automatons, but their anguish increased as they drew near the Cashmere Gate, where the ground was thickly strewn with dead bodies, some of them being those of officers of the 38th and 74th, their own friends and acquaintances.

Pat Doyle strove by affected lightness of heart -- even by attempted jokes -- to keep up the spirits of the poor ladies; but all his efforts were ghastly.

"By the powers, these will be fine times for crocodiles and alligathors -- there will be lots of high caste corpses swimming down the river to the Ganges."

No one responded to this remark, but as a shell came soaring through the air towards them, describing a fiery arc, he shouted : -- 

"Take care, ladies -- look out, boys! here comes a whistling-dick; duck down -- duck down, or by the holy trout of Kilgavower, there'll be promotion in heaven or on earth for some of us."

It hissed harmlessly past, and exploded near the Moree gate, about a quarter of a mile distant.

There were no other means of conveyance now for the ladies and a large party of civilians and officers -who were now collected in the main guard, an enclosure within the Cashmere Gate, but a few light gun-carriages, to which horses of various kinds were hastily traced.

"Form line across the street, Frank, and open a fire upon all who approach between the Church and the Treasury," cried Harrower to Temple; "cover the rear, while I assist the ladies. Mellon, your men will fall in on the left of ours."

"All right, Jack," replied Rowley.

"Oh my papa! -- oh my sister -- lost -- lost -- lost!" cried Lena and Kate together, as they were placed during the scrambling arrangement that ensued, on separate gun-carriages, all the seats or ammunition boxes of which were already crowded, back and front, with fugitives, chiefly women and children.

The orders given to drivers were simply to lash their horses furiously, to make a dash past the Moora Bastion or north-east angle of the walls of Delhi, for a ford of the Jumna, and then to gallop along the Meerut road, past the Doab canal and on by Tahurpoor.

Riding at a sharp hand gallop, Colonel Rudkin was already shewing the way, and all the clattering field pieces, with their terrified and unhappy freight, at once were put in motion.

At the very moment when Harrower was whispering some words -- he scarcely knew what -- of comfort and farewell to Lena, adding that he would soon be after her, with all his men double-quick -- there burst forth a sudden roar and blaze of musketry, chiefly in their rear and on the right flank. A garland of fire seemed to flash along the walls from the Cashmere Gate to the sharp angle of the Moora Bastion, and amid many a stifled shriek, Jack heard the sharp ping-ping-pinging of the conical rifle-bullets, as they tore past his ear, for now the merciless sepoys had opened from the streets and ramparts a murderous fusilade upon the line of gun-carriages and their helpless occupants.

The worst anticipations -- the most gloomy forebodings of poor old Dr. Weston -- seemed now on the eve of being realized.

An immense number of defenceless beings were killed or wounded; horses were shot in the traces, and the carriages and tumbrels were overturned, crushing and mutilating those who sat on them.

The gun to which Harrower half-clung as he spoke to Lena -- a brass twelve pounder -- was swept away by the terrified horses at full speed, he knew not whither. To save himself from being dashed to pieces, he clung to an iron ring of the seat with one hand, and with the other, held her firmly on the hard cushion of the ammunition box. Several ladies fell off the guns, under the influence of wounds or terror, and not a few, because their children had fallen from their weary and now feeble hands.

The two drivers had been shot in their saddles, and the body of one yet hung in the stirrups, while the four maddened and terrified animals rushed on at full speed, and Harrower felt as if in a dream or nightmare.

Crashing down a rocky path, they thundered over a wooden bridge of the canal near the Moora Bastion, over the flat reedy space that lies beyond, and they plunged into the Jumna, at a place where fortunately, at that season, as the rains had not commenced, it was somewhat shallow. There two ladies -- who they were, neither Lena nor Harrower knew- -- fell off the ammunition boxes, and were swept away; and when the horses dragged the gun up the opposite bank, it stuck fast in the dense jungle, and Harrower found himself alone in a wild place -- alone with Lena Weston, who was half-fainting, half-hysterical, and perfectly helpless in his hands.

In almost every direction round them, incendiary fires were visible -- European bungalows, the solitary dwellings of ryots and zemindars, with haystacks and even groves of trees, were given to the flames, as. the property of those who favoured the Feringhees, or were worth plundering, and these lurid glares rivalled in brilliance the light of the cloudless moon.

Delhi was some miles distant now, but still the boom of cannon came on the night air, and the flash of an occasional musket could be seen near the bend of the river, where the house of Sir Theophilus Metcalfe stood, for though Harrower knew it not until long after, many of the poor ladies, officers, and soldiers, who had flung themselves off the guns, when the firing of the sepoys first began, had crossed the ditch near the Cashmere Gate, by scrambling up the scarp on the opposite side, and fled on foot straight north. Many perished in the mainguard, many more were shot down, but a few reached Metcalfe House, and escaped across the river Jumna, just as the pursuers burst into the grounds, destroying, burning, and bayonetting, like fiends as they were, urged on by Gunga Rai, and other fakirs, who were shouting:

"Hunt and slay -- hunt and slay the Feringhees! Strike, Mohammedans, for Islam -- strike, Hindoos, for Vishnu! death to the kafirs -- the ghora-logue (white people), may their wives and daughters be defiled!"

It was through the grounds of Metcalfe House that the survivors of Harrower's and Mellon's party effected their retreat, and ultimately reached Meerut; but all who from weakness or wounds fell into the hands of the sepoys, were instantly destroyed, for the massacres of the ferocious Septembrisers, and the horrors of the Sicilian vespers, were acted anew that night in Delhi.

Ignorant as yet that the mutiny was so general over all the Province, Harrower did not feel the despair which the situation of himself and of his delicate companion might otherwise have inspired. She felt as if she was the last of all her race -- assured now that Kate and Mellon -- even little Willie, must have perished, and that happy and joyous lad, Dicky Rivers, too!

Harrower felt only a tiger-like longing for vengeance on the mutineers, at whose hands he had lost so many friends, and who had wrought so much misery to so many innocent and helpless people.

There was, however, an immediate necessity for the preservation and concealment of himself and Miss Weston, and for having her deposited in safety, either at Meerut or at Kurnaul, which was eighty miles distant, for the idea of returning to Delhi was simply madness; and how were they to travel, weary, worn, sick at heart, and a-foot, in a land swarming with enemies?

If Mellon or others had not saved poor Kate by this time, she was too probably lost in that vortex of ruin and slaughter -- the City of Delhi; and if Doctor Weston and Polly had not found a safe shelter in the palace of the Moguls, their fate must have been sealed ere the eve of that terrible day!

As yet, Harrower knew not, and none in India, save the revolters, knew that the old King of Delhi was one of the secret springs of the mutiny; thus many of our poor fugitives fled to his palace for refuge in perfect confidence, and were butchered within its walls, by order of Mirza Mogul, Mirza Abubeker, and Baboo Sing.

Harrower took the loaded pistols from the holsters of one of the artillery horses, as an addition to his six-chambered Colt, and untracing the animal, lifted Lena into the saddle. He then filled up his flask -- which luckily was half full of brandy -- with water, and leading the horse by the bridle, set forth in search of a road, after throwing across the crupper, by that foresight and expedience peculiar to the soldier, the sailor, and the colonist, -- a couple of artillery cloaks, which he unstrapped from the seats of the gun.

Proceeding due north, in silent grief and horror for the events of the day, he turned his back on Delhi, though the eyes of his moaning and sobbing companion remained fixed on where the red flames were yet rising in the moonlight, for there she deemed lay the tomb of all her family!

CHAPTER VII.

ANARCHY.

Not one day, nor many days, saw an end of the cruelties that ensued in the city, when the mutineers found themselves fully in power, and joined by the lower order of the populace, many thousands in number; and the torture of such British subjects as were discovered from time to time, was ingeniously protracted.

The times of Timour the destroyer, seemed to have come again in Delhi!

A few unhappy English people, among whom were Judge Leslie, Mrs. Patna Rhys and her daughter (still attired in white silk and lace, as one of Kate's bridesmaids), took shelter in a mosque, where for several days, they lurked without food or water, till in despair, they called to a soubadar, who was passing with a party of sepoys.

These fellows halted at the door and peeped in, being doubtful of the number there, and how they might be armed.

"Death at once," said Mr. Leslie, "is better than the constant prospect of death -- the dread of an impending tragedy; moreover, I have lost my daughters, and have no wish to survive them!"

Happily for the poor man, he knew not how his daughters perished in the open streets close by!

"Surrender!" cried the soubadar.

"Give us your oaths -- your sacred promises, that you will give us water," said the judge, "and that you will take us all to the King of Delhi -- to Mahommed Shah, who may kill us if he pleases."

"We promise on our souls!" cried the sepoys; "but first surrender your arms."

"We have but two empty muskets," replied the judge, who was faint and sick with thirst.

The arms were handed out. Then the sepoys fixed their bayonets and brought forth the melancholy prisoners -- eight ladies, eight gentlemen, and eleven children, all in the agonies of thirst and utter exhaustion, and deliberately they placed them all in a row under a burning sun. Mrs. Rhys, who had an infant in her arms, implored the soubadar to give it a little water, and to take her own life as the price of the gift; but the barbarian snatched the poor babe from her breast, and dashed it on the ground head foremost.

"Oh Father in Heaven!" shrieked the poor mother, attempting to throw herself over the quivering body of the child, but she was thrust back by a charged bayonet; a few volleys followed, and they were all left together in a gory heap, under the hot meridian sun.

The king, the princes, and leaders, seized upon the British Treasury, containing more than half a million sterling; but they seized upon more than that; "forty-eight females, most of them girls from ten to fourteen years, many being delicately nurtured ladies, were kept for the base purposes of the leaders of the insurrection for a whole week." At the end of that time, their clothes were rent from them, and they were surrendered to the lowest ruffians in Delhi, to abuse in the streets in the open light of day. Fingers, breasts, and noses were cut off; "one lady was three days dying; they flayed the face of another, and made her walk through the streets, perfectly nude," according to a native eye witness.

As we shall ere long shew, Mellon was one of those, who was borne away by the tide of fugitives towards Meerut. In the dark and confusion, he had lost sight of Kate, and Lena too; he knew not whether they had escaped and found concealment, or been shot or captured, and the emotions with which he heard such tidings as these can only be imagined, but never described.

To what power could these poor captive women and children appeal for protection now, for even the old laws of the Moguls had become a dead letter. Though nothing could be less calculated to remedy the abuses of Government, or the spirit of tyranny and degradation of woman, which last, is one of the essences of Islamism, there had been a species of jurisprudence once in the Mohammedan kingdom of Delhi; but it was chiefly made up from the additions put to the Koran, or rather, the traditions admitted by the Suni as applied by Abu Hanifa, a jurisconsult whose authority was supreme in India, as it is now in Turkey, though steam, gas, and electricity, together with brandy and bitter beer, are likely to knock his system all to pieces.

To the brutal Mussulman and sensual Hindoo, the position occupied by an English lady, or any Christian woman, seems absurd and incomprehensible; and hence came the mad desire to insult, degrade, and torture, ere they slew them.

Like all heathens, they regard woman merely as an animal -- a little more pleasing, much more ornamental, but not quite so useful as a horse. It is through the sublime influence of Christianity alone, that she occupies a place of almost perfect equality with man; and that position she owes to the religion and the chivalry of the older ages of the world -- to the tender devotion of the early Christians, and to much of that, which sectarians in the present day stigmatise as Mariolatry.

Many of the Hindoo women bitterly mocked the dying misery of ours, and of their children; but what could be the maternal love of females, who, as a sacrifice to the Ganges, the Jumna, or the Indus, can at times, set their infants afloat in a basket, and quietly watch them while borne away by the current, and feel a glow of fanatical joy, if an alligator opens its huge jaws for a meal, for then they know that their sacrifice has been gratefully accepted by Mahadeva!

Mirza Mogul, who had ordered the strictest search to be made for the two missing daughters of "Padre Weston Sahib, dead or alive," was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the fast increasing army; Mirza Abubeker was made general of the cavalry, and many native officers were promoted to high commands.

Shumshoodeen Khan, the hideous trooper, deserter, and ex-Thug, was appointed Rissaldar of the 3rd Bengal Light Cavalry; Pershad Sing became Colonel of the 54th Native Infantry, and various havildars and naicks became captains, majors, and so forth; for promotion and plunder, loot and lust, were the order of the day in Delhi, where the old King Mohammed Bahadoor Shah, then past his ninetieth year, and, like his sons, an active abettor and suggestor of the atrocities, was proclaimed, amid the thunder of several hundred pieces of cannon, the King, Emperor, Padishah, and reigning sovereign of all India, and, as such, he made a state procession through the streets of the city, on the third day after the massacre, surrounded by sepoys, many of whom wore the war medals given to them by Queen Victoria, and preceded by elephants, with towers on their backs, full of dancing girls, and so forth, glittering with jewellery and gorgeous silks, and amid the mingled roar of gongs, drums, and the yells of a vast multitude.

CHAPTER VIII.

KATE'S WEDDING NIGHT.

The brilliant bridal party which had assembled in the church of Dr. Weston on that eventful 11th of May, was now scattered far and wide, or lying gashed and gory, dead and mutilated, a prey to jackals and vultures in the streets and gardens of Delhi.

Singularly enough, by the direction of chance, Harrower and Lena were together; Doctor Weston and Polly were prisoners in the palace when the massacre began, and Mellon, in sullen despair, with his men, the Brigadier, Colonel Rudkin, and others, was retreating along Meerut road.

But Kate -- where was she?

The bride -- the newly-wedded wife of a few hours of terror and carnage! Poor Rowley Mellon would have given his heart's blood to learn that she was safe and untouched, for his agonized mind was full of the most horrible imaginings. Her bridesmaids and friends -- alas! more than one of these were among the ill-fated forty-eight girls mentioned in the last chapter.

The horses of the gun-carriage on which Mellon had placed her, and all those who sat with her on the ammunition boxes, had fallen killed or wounded when the sepoys opened from the walls that terrible fire upon the fugitives. She fell from her seat, and lay stunned, confused, and perfectly still under the wheels of the fieldpiece.

After a time -- some hours, perhaps -- all was silent, terribly silent, around her; then she rose; and in terror of seeing so many corpses near, fled, in her bewilderment, into the town, passing through the Cashmere Gate, which was standing open and quite unguarded, for none kept watch and ward there now, save the dead.

She had on a dark dress, and mud and dust had rendered her sweet face and delicate hands almost black as those of a negro. Though seldom, or never, a-foot in the streets of Delhi, still she knew the city well, and mechanically took the way towards their own residence -- poor, trembling girl! whither else could she turn, in the frail hope of finding her father and Polly, either alive or dead; "But of all the forms of despair," says a writer truly, "perhaps the most pitiable is that which persists in disguising itself as hope."

Unnoticed, and keeping as much as possible in the dark shadow of the houses, she passed the church of St. James, which, like her father's chapel, had been demolished, and on the ruins of which the Dervish Falladeen had placed a bamboo rod, having affixed thereto a scrap of paper, on which was written the following lines from the 24th chapter of the Koran:

"As to the unbelievers, their works are like a vapour in a plain, which the thirsty traveller thinketh to be water, until when he cometh thereto he findeth it to be nothing."

Beyond lay the College and the dreadful debris of the exploded magazine, the long facade of the beautiful palace closing the vista, its walls now gay with a glare of torches and those curious fireworks, in the manufacture of which the Orientals excel; and all its windows, domes, and towers rendered distinct by the glare of countless Indian lights, white and crimson, orange, green, and yellow, for this fatal 11th of May was evidently a night of rejoicing with the princes of the Mogul dynasty.

More than once an involuntary shuddering cry escaped her as she stumbled over a dead body; but now the sound of excited voices and the rush of footsteps made her shrink aside and run into a dark and narrow alley, past the end of which she could see by the light of the moon a fugitive, half stripped and bleeding -- some hapless Englishman who had been tracked out and discovered, flying like a hare pursued by a pack of hounds, for close behind, with flashing sabres and tulwars, came his destroyers.

There were times when she almost doubted her own identity.

Was she really the same Kate Weston who only that morning had stood at the altar by the side of Mellon, surrounded by so many gay and smiling friends, and had heard her father perform the nuptial rite?

Shuddering, and filled with awful thoughts, the poor girl wandered on past the arches of the aqueduct of Ali Merdan Khan, across the street of Silver; and further on still, when the sound of voices again made her shrink down near the ruins of a recently burned house, and there she lay long in a species of stupor.

It was in that very street where now she crouched a terror-stricken fugitive, that, according to song, romance, and tradition (when Charles II. was King of Britain) the youngest daughter of the Emperor, Lalla Rookh, when wedded to Abdallah, of Bucharia, passed, on her departure for Cashmere, with groups of beautiful children scattering the way with roses before her.

When Kate again summoned sufficient strength to look at her watch, she found that midnight was past, and as all the thoughts of home rushed on her mind, with a torrent of indescribable grief and bitterness, she wrung her hands and moaned over the names of those lost and loved ones she had no hope of ever meeting more; but still the craving desire to see their own house once again impelled her, she set forth, and ere long she found herself near the great Mosque of Shah Jehan, the three white marble domes and two tall minarets of which towered against the sky. The latter are each more than a hundred and thirty feet in height, and are built of alternate courses of red and black marble.

She then knew that she had proceeded only half way on her hopeless errand, that she was still almost in the heart of the city, and now overcome by all she had suffered, with her knees bending under her, and fearing she was about to faint, in the desperate expectation that some pious Mussulman might take pity on her extreme misery, and protect her from his more savage countrymen, or the infuriated Hindoos, she ascended the vast flight of stately steps, that load to the three great porches, and passed trembling into the mosque.

At another time she could have admired the mighty temple, under the roof of which she was now intruding; but its vastness only added to her terror, and she knew not for a time, whether to advance or retire. At all events the place was so far sacred, that she was safe from the Hindoos, and no Mussulman would slay her within it.

The mosque was totally empty; she shrunk into a place that was completely involved in the shadow thrown by the marble pulpit, beyond which were the numerous coloured lamps that burned round the principal shrine; and then she strove to calm the wild beatings of her heart, and to remember the prayers her good old father had taught her, and which he was wont to read every night, before the family retired to rest.

She felt as if on the eve of insanity, and the strange aspect of the place in which she found herself for the first time, added curiously to the force of such morbid imaginings.

Of vast height and breadth, this mosque is two hundred and sixty feet long, and paved throughout with blocks of snow-white marble, having a broad black border. The walls and roof are also of white marble, with gorgeously carved friezes and cornices, and many brilliant lamps of chased silver, studded with precious stones, are suspended from the triple domes.

To the eyes of the unhappy Kate, all this seemed a phantasmagoria, and she closed them that she might not look upon it. She had wept so much, that she could weep no more, and her eyeballs were dry and painfully hot. She was sick at heart, and lay there on the cold marble pavement, watching and waiting the time of morning prayer, resolving on her knees to seek mercy and protection of the first Mahommedan who entered, or whose reverend air and gentleness of aspect might inspire her with hope; but now, a numbness, a faintness, a torpor that was not sleep, though somewhat like it, stole over her, and gave oblivion for a time.

On recovering from this, she felt her strength somewhat restored. The time was -- as her watch informed her -- the hour of three in the morning, and now, the not unnatural conviction came upon her, that by being found there -- especially if by some fanatical dervish -- she might more surely be courting the fate she strove to avoid, as the presence of a woman, an infidel, as they deemed her, would be supposed to have polluted a holy place.

When this new terror seized her, finding all still and quiet in the streets without, she resolved to try her fate there once more, and quitting the mosque, descended the long flight of steps, and avoiding the great entrance which is opposite to the palace, she issued through one which leads to the street that ends at the Toorkman Gate; but she had scarcely proceeded twenty paces, when a dark man in a yellow dress, too surely a native, who had been concealed in the shadow of a house, sprang forward and seized her by the arm.

A shrill cry of terror and despair escaped her, but he half stifled it by the sleeve of his dress.

"Lost -- lost -- lost!" moaned Kate, as she sunk on her knees by his side, for all strength had departed from her.

CHAPTER IX.

THE GUEBER.

"Hush! peace, and do not be alarmed," said this man, whose long yellow tunic or gaberdine, girt by a black shawl, together with his high conical cap, shewed that he was Gueber or Parsee, though he spoke very good English; "you are one of the daughters of Weston Sahib?"

"I am, have pity on me."

"And you were yesterday married to Mellon Sahib -- is it not so?"

"Yes -- yes;" replied Kate in tremulous accents.

"Poor child! Do you not know me?" asked the stranger.

"Alas! sir, no," said Kate, who saw that he was an old man of mild and gentle aspect, much fairer in complexion than a Hindostanee, and with a venerable white beard and pleasing countenance.

"I am Mohassan Jamsetjee, the Parsee cloth merchant, with whom Mellon Sahib lived in Chandney Choke; you have often been in my shop and house, with the two Mem Sahibs, your sisters."

"You have daughters -- you are a father, I know, and you will protect me, good sir, you will save me for the sake of mine."

"At the risk of my life I shall try to protect and save you, child," said the worthy old Parsee, who hated alike the Hindoo and the Mohammedan, being like all his race, an industrious and peaceful trader, who had every desire in the world to see law, order, and British rule once more enforced in Delhi. He cast round him an anxious glance to see that they were unnoticed, and undoing the Cashmere shawl that formed his girdle, he placed it over her head as a disguise, and said, "come with me this way, between these walls and gardens, we may hope to reach, unseen, my house in Chandney Choke; and once there, you will be, I hope, in perfect safety, provided you keep yourself strictly concealed."

"And you will endeavour to discover the fate of my father, of my sisters, my husband?" she implored, while her tears flowed freely again. "The torture of the suspense I am enduring is terrible!"

"I shall do all I can, but without the aid of Heaven, it may be very little."

The Parsee spoke kindly, and apparently had a genuine wish to serve her.

Poor trembling Kate! she had read Moore's "Lalla Rookh," and Voltaire's tragedy of "Les Guebres," and she had learned all about the veiled Prophet of Khorhassan and the fire-worshippers -- of all the many idolatries which cumber the soil of India perhaps theirs is the most remarkable -- but she never thought of being committed to the care and humanity of one of those people, as she was now, by a singular arrangement of destiny.

A temporary emotion of confidence, and the conviction that she might trust this old man, soothed her terrible agitation. She now remembered him perfectly, having often made purchases at his shop, and moreover, she, with her sisters and Dicky Rivers, had sometimes visited Mellon's rooms at his house.

"It is fortunate for you that I chanced to be abroad at this early hour; but I am only returning home after being detained all night at the house of a friend -- one of my religion -- who has been severely wounded and robbed by the mutineers," said he, as they proceeded through the silent streets together, with all the speed that Kate could exert.

Happily they reached his house unseen, and entered it by a back way, through the garden, thus avoiding the perils of the great street; and the affection, anxiety, and joy displayed by the family of the merchant on seeing him return, and in perfect safety, were very re-assuring to Kate; though they failed to conceal the alarm her presence among them inspired, as they knew but too well that if she was discovered by any of the revolters, or their adherents, that plunder and death would be the immediate penalty of all. But the Parsee merchant was grateful to the Feringhees, whose wise laws and established order had enabled him to amass wealth, and trade in peace, and by whose energies the cruel Thugs, the destroyers of his sons, had been rooted out and swept away; he was grateful, too, to Mellon Sahib, for whose sake he resolved at all hazards to protect his fugitive wife till better times came, or until he should transmit her to her own people, if he could but get her out of Delhi.

Secresy was enjoined to all, and for the remainder of the following day Kate lay abed, feeble, prostrated, and half-stupefied by all she had seen and undergone. She only remembered that the wife of the Parsee, who bathed her ternpies with rose-water, had told her that she was in Mellon's room, and in Mellon's very bed -- that couch around which the hideous Thugs had hovered -- and that she must not raise the curtains or Venetian blinds to peep into the street, lest her fair Feringhee face might be seen by the passers without.

Then she would lie for hours with silent tears oozing from the matted lashes of her closed eyes; and from time to time she kissed the wedding ring, which "her own dear papa" had consecrated and Rowley had placed upon her finger, and that little mystic golden hoop was the sole link now that bound her to the world.

She found the wife and daughters of the old fire-worshipper, like all the women of those remarkable idolaters, delicate, mild, and pleasing in their manner, for the gentler sex of the Gueber tribes are celebrated over all India for their many domestic virtues.

Among the fire-worshippers no conversion is ever achieved by Christian missionary, by Mohammedan dervish, or Hindoo fakir, for they adhere to their fathers' faith as rigidly as if Darius was still marching to meet Alexander, with the Sacred Fire, borne on altars of silver, before him, or as if the Great Cyrus was still seated on the throne of Persia, their native country, from whence they were driven by the conquests of the Mohammedans in the eighth century.

Thus Mohassan Jamsetjee always wore a dress of dark yellow, like the Guebers of old, and never omitted to make a low salaam to the rising sun, a custom that prevailed among our own mountaineers till a very recent period, for the worship of fire is undoubtedly the most ancient religion in the world; and he believed implicitly that his prophet Zoroaster, in his love of wisdom and virtue, led a solitary life on a mountain, which one day he found covered with the flames of a celestial fire; that he passed through them without harm, and beheld the awful form of the Deity -- the Fountain of Light. But with all this, like the men of his race, Mohassan was thrifty, prudent, and industrious, for the Parsees are among the best and most enterprising men of business in India, being addicted solely to the arts of peace and of making money.

In the room occupied by Kate there yet remained some traces of Mellon's residence there; in a Japanese cabinet she found a few of his visiting cards, a Cawnpore cigar case, with a couple of cheroots in it, a stray glove, and a button of the Bengal Fusiliers, and these trifles she treasured and kept by her "as precious relics of her lost husband, her dear beloved Rowley."

Daily Mohassan Jamsetjee prosecuted his inquiries in the city concerning the family of Doctor Weston, and the probable fate of Lieutenant Mellon, but did so in vain, for if not fugitives, or concealed somewhere in those ty-kunas or underground houses, which are peculiar to Delhi (and have openings for light above, with only one place of entrance), they had too probably perished in the general massacre of all the Europeans.

There was still hope, however. Sir Theophilus Metcalfe had contrived to conceal himself for three days in Delhi, and escaping, after wandering for ten days in the woods and jungles, reached Hansi, which was more than one hundred and twenty miles distant.

Her family mansion was now in possession of Pershad Sing, the Hindoo havildar, now Colonel of the 54th Mapert-ka-Pultan.

"Ah, what have I done that Heaven should thus abandon me!" she would sometimes exclaim, as she wrung her hands; "shall I ever again be easy in my mind -- ever again safe and happy?"

"All are safe and happy too, who are in the keeping of God, and yonder is His throne!" the old Parsee would reply, while pointing to the sun, that shone in all its Indian splendour on the gilded domes and marble towers of Delhi; "but to be simply happy, after the fashion of this earth," he added, with a smile, "our old Persian proverb says a man must have a wife from Yezdabad, eat the bread of Yezdidi, and drink wine of the grapes that grow on the plains of Shiraz."

But Kate would look at him vacantly, and wonder whether she was still in her senses, for there were moments of bewilderment in which she had doubts of her own identity.

Then she would consider that she was ungrateful to God, for she had been spared when many had perished miserably; that now her life was safe at least, and that she was tended with every care.

Her former life seemed to have been blotted out -- to have passed altogether away, like a dream. The dresses, the faces, manners, and language of the Parsee's family were all novel and strange to her, and she could converse with him only, as he had learned English early in life, during his trading visits to Calcutta and elsewhere.

On returning from his tours of cautiously made enquiry in the city, he always had some news for Kate, but it was generally of a disastrous kind; that other mutinies and massacres were occurring daily all over India, and that the revolted sepoys to the number of many, many thousands were constantly pouring into Delhi, Horse, Foot, and Artillery, with drums beating, and colours flying; that the city was fast becoming one vast garrison, and that it seemed as if erelong the whole great army of the East Indian Company would be ranked under the banner of Mohammed Bahadoor Shah. Thus even the hope of ever getting away from India, began to die in the heart of Kate.

From the marble pulpit in the great mosque of Shah Jehan, Hafiz the dervish predicted to the people, that the ancient glories of the Mogul dynasty would be fully renewed by the sons of the old king; that one would equal him who built Delhi, and that Abubeker would equal in piety him of the same name who bore testimony of the prophet's journey to Heaven, and smote the irreverend Jew; and yet the wretch he lauded was steeped to the very lips in the blood of our women and children.

"And now those cruel and sensual Hindoos," added Mohassan to his tidings, one day, "hope fully to revive their abominable suttees which the Company and Bahadoor Sahib at Calcutta put down, though believing not in our blessed Zoroaster, who has taught us, that to consume any portion of the human body by fire, is impure and impious, for it is the element which we deem symbolical of the Disposer of all things."

Then he brought her still more alarming tidings. The sepoys boasted of having killed all the Feringhee men, and that now their women, or soldiers in petticoats, sent by the Queen of England, were coming to avenge them. Of this strange intelligence, Kate could make nothing, not even when Mohassan added, that "Havelock Sahib and his terrible Tape-wallahs, who marched with their legs bare, were pressing on to Cawnpore and Lucknow.",

What or who those Tape-wallahs were he could not tell; but the sepoys named them, he knew, the "Tumasha-Ka-Pultan," or fighting regiment.

Though the sepoy troops who were being concentrated in vast numbers in Delhi, were occasionally riotous and given to plunder -- the Hindoos and Mohammedans attacking and robbing each other -- the populace were calming down. The excitement consequent to hunting and cutting to pieces the English kafirs, and the torturing of their helpless women and children, by the budmashes and other ruffians of the city, was beginning to pall now; perhaps it was that no more victims could be had for outrage and butchery, so the Parsee began to conceive hopes of getting Kate Weston secretly beyond the walls, and of transmitting her by water to some quiet station lower down the provinces, where she would be more safe, and from whence she might reach Calcutta.

But now as the eleven gates of Delhi were closely guarded by the sepoy troops, the first difficulty he had to encounter, was how to convey her, a white woman, out of the city; so, as necessity and danger often make men fertile in expedients, after consulting with one or two other Parsees, a plan was hit upon to baffle the suspicion of the sentinels, to get the poor fugitive safely into the country, and convey her by the Doab canal to some peaceful town.

CHAPTER X.

TO THE TOWER OF SILENCE.

Poor Kate could not but shudder at the mode of escape proposed to her, and the terrible mockery of the part she had to perform -- to feign that death which might already have darkened the eyes of all she loved on earth. !" But it was actually suggested that she must do this, and be borne out of the city by the Parsees towards their place of interment about sunset; and the intense longing and craving once again to be among her own people, if any indeed survived, and to hear an .English voice, became so strong, that she consented, after being convinced that no other plan could be adopted to get her secretly out of Delhi, for if even her face was dyed, her blonde hair would certainly betray her.

Repugnant though the scheme proved, to one of his naturally truthful nature, Mohassan consoled himself by reflecting that his final object was good and humane. He closed his shop, put up the shutters or drew down all the blinds of the windows and verandahs, and giving out that a kinswoman from the country had died in his house, he obtained from the kotwal or mayor -- an official whom the people of Delhi now changed every day or two -- a written pass, or permission to pass forth from the city with the funeral train.

They hoped to get her conveyed to a distance by water; the public roads were all infested by mutineers, thieves and ruffians of all kinds, who rejoiced in the subversion of rule and order, and the railroads already formed, or in progress, were everywhere stopped or torn up.

The telegraph wires, and in some places, the partially formed lines of rail were destroyed by the advice of such pastors as the dancing dervish Falladeen and the fakir Gunga Rai -- all classes and creeds seemed to conspire for the destruction of these great elements of progress and civilization, introduced by the Kafirs. Round shot and grape were fired through the locomotives, of the actual nature or vital powers of which the natives were somewhat doubtful, while their aspect and noises filled them with mysterious awe.

"That accursed iron-horse of the Feringhees," said Mirza Mogul, "that car of fire, swifter than the Ehkas of our fathers, which puffs and pants and whistles along a road of iron, blackening the sky with odious smoke, scaring even the serpent and the tiger in the jungle, shall no more run straight through everything, ripping up the graves of Mohammedans, polluting the temples of Brahma, extinguishing the sacred fires of the Guebers, desecrating the Holy Forests of the Khonds and respecting nothing. Death to it!"

So Mohammed Bukht Khan, the rebel soubadar of the regiment of Artillery, and his gholandazees, with their twelve pounder guns, knocked the locomotives to pieces, about Agra and elsewhere.

The day of her projected escape from Delhi was one of deep anxiety to Kate, though she scarcely dared to hope that now she was leaving one relation alive, or even a" friend behind her there, save the family of the kind and gentle Parsee.

She knew the place towards which she was to be borne, and felt a chill of terror at the recollection of it. Often with Mellon, and merry, laughing Dicky Rivers -- when such a melancholy state of affairs, or such an expedition as that now projected, could not have been foreseen - -- she had ridden by chance -- never by design -- near the hideous and barbarous cemetery, where the small community of Parsees in Delhi left -- for they do not inter -- their dead.

The body is simply borne forth on a bier, and deposited in a certain place allotted for that purpose, a circle paved with stones, or the summit of a tower covered by an iron grating. There it is stripped, laid out, and committed to the elements, and to the beaks and claws of the birds of prey, which are always to be seen in great numbers hovering over the mournful spot. The Parsees go no more near the place if they can avoid it, and singularly enough, regard with horror, the Mohammedans, who reverently lay their dead in the earth, never more to be disturbed, and the Hindoos, who cast theirs into rivers, preferring a Golgotha, such as those Towers of Silence (as they are named), so common in Bombay, where more of their tribe are collected than in other parts of India.

The eventful day of her departure was indeed one of intense solicitude and dread to Kate; but the eight Parsees who assembled for the mock funeral, were in excellent spirits, and talked merrily enough, though she knew not a word they said; but their thoughts and topics were all of merchandise and making money; of dealings in tea, coffee, sugar and rice, ivory and bullion; of perfumes and spices; of Canton silks, Cashmere shawls, Dacca muslin, and Indian gauze; of jewelled weapons, silver hookahs, and so forth, till the sound of the gongs or ghurries at the distant gates, as the sentinels struck the hour, announced that the time had come for setting forth, as in a short space the sun would be sinking far away beyond Meerut.

"When last at the Tower of Silence," said one of the Parsees, "it was to leave there my beloved son. I left you to watch, Mohassan."

"Yes -- the birds of the air tore out both eyes at once."

"So that I could not augur whether he was in future happiness or misery. Ah, had the right eye been taken first !"

"But think of my beloved sons," said Mohassan; "no Tower of Silence received them; they found their graves in the water, like the idolatrous Hindoos, for they perished at the hands of the accursed Thugs. Oh, blessed be the wise English, for rooting out that brood of hell!"

How wildly Kate's heart beat, when the wife and daughters of Mohassan Jamsetjee kissed, and bade her farewell, after arraying her in a long white robe, which completely covered her from head to foot, veiling even her face. A little shuddering cry escaped her, when she stretched herself on the bier, which had six handles, and was formed entirely of iron, as wood is deemed too sacred for such a use, being consecrated to the god of fire.

Mohassan and five other Parsees, entirely clothed in white, now lifted the bier; the house door was opened and shut, and then by the change of temperature, Kate, after the lapse of many weeks, found herself once more in the streets of Delhi, but borne through them with a slow and measured pace on a Parsee bier, and not bowling along in the well-hung carriage, or riding her favourite grey pad.

The atmosphere was hot, though the time was evening, yet Kate felt in a cold perspiration with the fear of discovery, and of greater dangers that might still await her. As they proceeded through the streets, past the sellers of sherbet from China jars, water-carriers with their huge leathern bottles, dealers in sweetmeats, pipe-sticks and tobacco, men with hunting cheetahs for sale; and onward amid all the din and general bustle of Chandney Choke, to reach that fatal place, the Cashmere Gate, Kate Mellon -- for so she must now be named -- felt her heart at times sink very low indeed; there was a singing in her ears, a mist before her eyes, a shuddering terror of her whole situation, a total doubt and ignorance of whither she was to be conveyed ultimately, and with whom; and times there were, when a kind of stupor seemed to freeze her faculties.

From one of those fits she was roused by finding the bier laid hastily on the ground, and a kind of altercation in Hindostanee going on around her. They had reached the Cashmere Gate, but the havildar of the guard, which was composed of sepoys of the 74th Bengal Infantry, made some difficulty about permitting the supposed funeral party to pass out, for there is a natural antagonism between the Parsees, the Mohammedans, and the Hindoos, and in this time of total misrule, they were pretty free to indulge their spirit of pettiness, and show openly how cordially they hated each other in secret.

"Whom have you here?" growled the havildar, relinquishing his hubble-bubble with impatience.

"A woman of my household -- salaam, sahib."

"Salaam to you -- dead?"

"Woe to the mournful day! Why should we be here, else?"

"Let me see her face."

"Sacrilege!" cried all the Parsees together, with uplifted hands, and in a gust of terror, that "was by no means feigned, they appealed to a native officer, who wore large gold epaulettes and a colonel's uniform. He was loitering near, but he only mocked their anxiety, and anathemised them as "infidels and Kafirs."

Encouraged by this, the lawless havildar, who seemed in a mood for rough jesting, said:

"If she is dead, I may at least, without crime, pass my sword once through her body, to assure myself of the truth of what you say."

"Sacrilege! sacrilege!" cried the whole of the Parsees, interposing between the sergeant and Kate, who luckily for herself, scarcely knew what was passing.

"Accursed idolaters!" cried the havildar, "do you not feed the vultures, and other foul birds of the air with your dead, and what greater desecration can there be in the clean stab of a Mohammedan's sword?"

He unsheathed and brandished the weapon as he spoke, so a multitude began to collect immediately.

"Aga sahib," cried Mohassan, appealing again to the native colonel, in the deepest anxiety, "read this permission to pass forth to our Tower of Silence -- it bears the signature and seal of the Kotwal of Delhi."

"Do you mean those of Assim Ali Khan, lately a naick of the 54th Mapert-ka-Pultan?"

"No, aga."

"Whose signature, then?"

"The Kotwal Aga Hossein," replied the trembling Parsee.

"Thou art a fool as well as an idolater. Hossein was blown from the mouth of a gun at the Kotwally this morning," cried the havildar, rending the document to pieces.

"By whom?"

"Mahommed Bukht Khan, soubadar of the artillery," replied the other, laughing.

"And for what crime?"

"Crimes enough, I think; for concealing a white girl, and secreting from Mirza Mogul, a thousand gold mohurs, which belonged to the Feringhee Judge Leslie."

"Oh, Fountain of Light, is it so?" groaned the Parsee, for the Kotwal was his friend and patron.

"Yes -- so the Corporal, Assim Ali Khan, is Kotwal now."

"But my daughter must be borne to the appointed place -- the Tower of Silence," urged Mohassan gently, as he became seriously alarmed for the safety of Kate, of himself, and his other friends.

"Not till we have seen what she was like," replied the havildar, who was evidently bent on mischief, and drunk with bhang; so he tore away the long white veil which covered the face of Kate, and a fierce and prolonged howl of astonishment rung from the sepoy guard, and the assembled lookers on, when they beheld a -- white woman!

The six Parsees -- so fair an excuse for oppressing and plundering them was not to be omitted -- were instantly seized and made prisoners. The native Colonel rushed forward sword in hand to seize his captive; and on finding herself discovered at last, a prisoner, a victim, the prey of the cruel, rancorous, and unpitying horde of natives, Kate's blood seemed to congeal, to become actually frozen, and she neither uttered a cry, nor shed a tear, though grasped in the rude hands of Pershad Sing -- the soubadar major of the 5 ith Infantry.

CHAPTER XI.

RETREAT TO MEERUT.

The morning after that night of wandering and terror, spent by Kate in the streets of Delhi, and in the stately mosque of Shah Jehan, saw Rowley Mellon, with Frank Temple, Eversly, and some other fugitives, making their way along the Meerut road, by Shahdorah, Taburpoor, and other small villages, and so on, by Begumabad, in the vicinity of which there is an extensive serai.

There was a savage expression in our soldiers' eyes, and an emotion of aching despair, in many of their hearts, for they had lost those they loved most on earth, and in modes so barbarous, as to excite them to madness.

Mellon had been assured by some, that the gun-carriage, on which Kate was seated, had been driven to Metcalfe House; and he had followed the fugitives thither, effectively covering the rear with his own men and Hammer's mingled; but only to find no trace of Kate. To return was impossible. Then it was suggested that as some persons had crossed the river, she might have been conveyed away with them, so the heartbroken Mellon had no other course to pursue than to proceed towards Meerut with the surviving Europeans.

The slender party consisted now, chiefly of Temple's men and his own, with a few civilians, who accompanied them on horseback, in buggies, or afoot; and all had strange and wild stories to tell of their adventures and escapes. One -- a gentleman connected with the "Delhi Gazette," -- had been pursued for miles, by a naick and four troopers of the 3rd Light Cavalry, having the while, his wife and their baby (which was fast asleep) beside him; but he gave her the reins, and with his double-barrelled rifle, in five successive shots, fired over the back of his buggy, knocked every sowar out of his saddle.

By night, all had trod on in silence, or uttering only from time to time, a fierce malediction or deep groan of grief. Breathless, and sorely athirst they were, after the excitement and toil of the past day, each poor fellow loaded with musket, bayonet, ammunition, canteen, and accoutrements; some of them carrying their own children, or those of their fallen or lost comrades, they struggled along manfully, and each seemed like Christian, floundering under his burden in the Slough of Despond.

But when day dawned and they looked into each other's sallow faces, a little conversation began.

"Did any one here see Ensign Rivers, of the 6th Native Infantry, last night?" asked Mellon, whose face was deadly pale, his long, fair whiskers dark with grime, his eyes bloodshot, and his lips black, as if he suffered from fever.

"Rivers was on the leading gun-carriage, with one of the Leslie girls -- Flora, I think," replied Temple, "but I am not quite certain."

"No one here seems certain of anything: and poor Polly "Weston?"

"A lovely young girl!"

"She must have perished in the earlier part of that most horrible day!" groaned Mellon, his ideas connecting her with her cousin, the boy ensign.

"Awful work, this -- by Jove!" exclaimed the dandy Eversly (whose uniform was all in rags) as he stumbled over a dead Englishman, one of the many, who when travelling dawk, were met and killed by the mutineers.

"By all that is holy, I hope we'll soon be back to Delhi -- to-morrow, or the next day at latest -- with the Queen's Dragoon Guards and the 60th Rifles, to kill every man and mother's son in the place!" said Doyle; "that once done, and all settled comfortable, I feel that I could depart in peace -- by the trout of Kilgavower, I could!"

"Yes, Doyle, old boy!" exclaimed Temple, grasping his hand with a sternness of manner that well became the soldier-like young fellow; "we'll have a bloody reckoning for all that has happened. Let them come on a hundred to one, we shall meet them like Britons -- won't we, lads?"

"That we shall, sir, foot to foot, bayonet to bayonet -- think of the women -- the girls -- the women and the babies !" cried the men, in vengeful enthusiasm to each other.

Doyle was smoking fiercely at a cheroot, the lighted end of which glowed like a carbuncle or a red fire-fly in the dusky dawn.

"By Gad!" said he, "when the 54th revolted, I wished that we had but one British regiment at our backs -- only one, I don't care which -- from the Scots Royals to the Canadian Rifles, to have cut the whole Sepoy Brigade to pieces! How small we felt, while quietly looking on that murdering scene by the Cashmere gate; and how miserable, how degraded and broken in spirit I feel, to be levanting in this fashion from a rabble of Pandies!"

"They are not all a rabble, Mr. Doyle," said Colonel Rudkin in his quiet and unexcitable manner, "for the regularly drilled sepoys, under their soubadars and other native officers, were some thousands strong -- five full regiments certainly," he added, with his habitual smile.

"The merciless and cold-blooded hounds! oh, my poor Kate, and all her family, too -- gone, gone, gone!" exclaimed Mellon; and he was not ashamed to weep before his men.

"Come, Rowley," said Doyle, "bear like a man."

"But I must also feel it as a man!" responded Mellon, unconsciously quoting the very words of Shakespeare.

"Well, next week, Rowley, please God, we shall be bayonetting and blowing from the guns every copper-coloured beggar in the place."

"Doyle, that will never restore the dead to life, or make the past return," said Mellon, with a sadness that was intense, while his men muttered much that was expressive of genuine ethnological contempt of the Hindostanees.

They knew not the actual state of their peril and isolation; they only thought and felt themselves to be a handful of fugitives from Delhi, who would soon return in strength, with others, to deal out a terrible meed of vengeance and retribution on the as yet victorious sepoys.

"In the Presidency of Bengal, at this moment," said Colonel Rudkin, to whose -mind some such thoughts were occurring, "there are one hundred and fifty thousand troops; but of these, only two regiments of cavalry, sixteen of infantry, and six battalions of foot artillery, are European, and these are scattered, by corps and companies, over a territory exceeding by four times in size the whole of Great Britain; so if this rebellious fever spreads, we shall have some hard work to bleed it down."

"I think I could drink a whole pailful of iced sherbet, or of delicious brandy-paunee," said Eversly, with a sigh, as he thought of past luxuries.

"I should be thankful for one drop of cold water," responded Mellon, in a faint voice; "I feel as if a fever or a mortal illness was about to seize me."

Eversly, long accustomed to every comfort at home and to every luxury in India, now felt the total deprivation of all which makes life endurable to the European there; now there was no tatty-wetter to sluice the verandah mattings, no punkah-wallah to clear the atmosphere of the night, no kitmutgar with his cup of sparkling hock, cold from the icepail, no mosquito curtains,

and no chowrie wherewith to whisk those troublesome insects away. Yet he could see that misery of the heart is worse than that of the body, for after looking attentively at his brother officer, he said,

"All this is deuced hard lines for you, Mellon; I have only two cigars left -- have one?"

"True! in such a time as this he is to be thrice envied who has neither wife nor child, kith nor kin, to lose -- thanks for the cigar, Horace."

Many of the fugitives who had horses or buggies, and these were chiefly civilians, had now left the armed party far behind, pushing on for Meerut, a fatal measure for most of them, as it proved in the sequel.

The sun of the next day was hot and scorching; Mellon and others contrived to keep their heads tolerably cool, by simply tying a white handkerchief over the glazed top of the shako, and when they halted near a well, he strictly and wisely enjoined his men -- many of whom were suffering from wounds and bruises -- to allay their thirst by simply rinsing their mouths with the cool water, without swallowing it -- a sore temptation to the poor fellows -- as the danger of a copious draught, amid such heat and toil, was very great; and now the common safety and the great cause of humanity rendered it necessary that every European soldier should be in fighting order.

Wearily and heartlessly they trudged on their march; even Rudkin was a-foot now, for a leech had gone up the nostril of his horse, as it drank at a wayside runnel, and he lost the animal as it plunged madly into a jungle.

They made a halt under the branches of a mango tope, near Morednuggar.

"Well may I say 'here will I lie to-night, but where to-morrow?'" sighed Mellon,in the bitterness of his heart, and he never could have conceived it possible that at that moment Kate -- his own adorable Kate -- was asleep, worn and exhausted, in the very bed he had so recently vacated, in the house of Mohassan Jamsetjee, the Parsee merchant!

Beyond Morednuggur, and more especially beyond Begumahad, they found on the road next morning the bodies of many Europeans murdered and stripped, and in these they recognised several of their fellow-travellers who had preceded them mounted or in vehicles, in their anxiety to get shelter and have their thirst allayed.

Ere long they saw the great and beautiful dome of the tomb of Abu rising from a square arcade of open arches, and encircled by eleven lesser domes, all shining in the sun before them; and when, after a thirty-four miles march, they entered Meerut, on all sides were to be seen the handiwork of the 3rd Cavalry, the 11th, and 20th Infantry, ruined bungalows, and burned cantonments; but they learned from the 6Oth Rifles that the outrages on the highway had been perpetrated by a numerous gang of Pindaroons, armed ruffians, who served any leader without pay, and were then lurking in the adjacent forests.

Mellon had barely reported himself officially to the officer commanding in Meerut, when he expressed his burning desire and anxiety to return to Delhi, for which place he had hoped the troops would at once set out; but he found with bitterness how little private interests and the most tender sympathies and affections will weigh with those who are compelled to manage with caution the sterner affairs of life.

To attack Delhi greater forces than those in Meerut were now required; the consultation of general officers had to be made, junctions with other troops effected, and a regular siege train prepared, so there were many days of torturing idleness, suspense, and delay, during which the bereaved Mellon, like many others in the same predicament, was nearly driven mad. Yet the duties of the station were numerous and heavy, for the whole country was excited and disaffected, or in open rebellion, and the savage gang of Pindaroons kept the garrison constantly on the alert.

At last Mellon, who longed for some more active employment or excitement than was afforded by mounting guard and piccmet, volunteered to lead a party against those outlaws, and marched on this duty one evening with a mixed force, composed of forty of Harrower's men, under Temple, and as many of his own, the Bengal Fusileers.

CHAPTER XII.

MELLON AND THE PINDAROONS.

Having carefully reconnoitred the neighbourhood on the preceding day, he advanced in the direction of Sirdana, formerly the principality, or life fief, of Zebonissa, the Begum Sumroo, and to which her adopted son and heir, Mr. David Dyce Sombre, succeeded, with all the insignia of government, an arrangement, however, completely ignored by the East India Company, exactly as in the more recent case of Bajee Rao and the Nana Sahib, of Bithoor, adoption being permitted by the Hindoo laws.

"To dthraw the cover," as Doyle said, their party was preceded by a large bullock waggon, or curtained cart, such as the native women are wont to travel in from place to place. The curtains were tied close as if to seclude from all the coloured ladies, who were represented by twelve men of the Cornish Light Infantry, with their Enfield rifles capped and loaded, and some fifty paces in the rear, marched Mellon with the rest of the detachment.

Lieutenant Frank Temple, tolerably well disguised, with a brace of loaded revolvers in his belt, acted as driver of this conveyance, and he vowed that the bullocks cost him more trouble than any four blood-horses that he had driven in the regimental drag along an English highway.

As the cart passed between the fields of wheat, sugar-cane, cotton, and maize that grew southward of Sirdana, which lies about ten cosses of Delhi (or sixteen miles English) distant from Meerut, an armed horseman was suddenly seen in front, but he galloped into the forest and disappeared.

"That fellow has gone, no doubt, to put the rascals on the alert," said Mellon, as they followed the very path he had taken.

Night had not yet closed in, so keeping the bullock waggon conspicuously halted on the highway, where it would be visible to any who might be secretly scouting on the verge of the forest, in a little clump of trees by the wayside, and within fifty yards of Temple's party, Mellon halted and concealed his men.

It was a very lonely place. Close by was a bamboo staff about twelve feet long; it was inBerted in a pile of stones, with a little triangular flag fluttering, to indicate that there a man had recently been slain by a tiger. This caused an unpleasant association of ideas, for the spot seemed melancholy enough, and to add to the discomfort of it, in addition to odious monkeys leaping from branch to branch, and hogs grunting in an adjacent jungle, snakes were hissing about, and could be seen wriggling their way across the dusty road.

Here the company remained in silence for a time waiting for any sign of the Pindaroons, among whom were said to be many native police and sepoys; then the soldiers began to whisper one to another of the atrocities they had committed, chiefly on the Hindoo and little Christian community of Sirdana, tearing ear-rings out of the flesh, and hacking off hands and feet, to procure with greater ease the golden bangles of the women.

The first hour of night stole slowly on, and no sound came from the forest but the shrieking of the jackals, the croak of the cannibal birds, and the howl of a pariah dog. Some of these sounded very strange, and Mellon remarked to his companions that he strongly suspected that by imitating such cries the Pindaroons were collecting or signalling to each other.

The party remained seated by the verge of a cool nuddee, or rivulet, that crept through the thicket, and Frank Temple with his clumsy team out upon the highway became rather impatient, as the beams of the rising moon lighted up pretty plainly the curtains of his bullock cart, making it a fair mark for any muskets or matchlocks in forest or jungle.

"Are you ill, Doyle, that you are so silent?" asked Mellon.

"No; but before marching I ate something -- a chop it was -- cooked by our bugler Rowley, and by St. Patrick it would take the stomach of an ostrich or a cassowary to digest it," replied Doyle, who was smoking pensively, but with his keen eyes bent on the dark depths of the forest.

"Well, Pat -- perhaps the bullets of the Pindaroons may be still less digestive."

"Bother the Pindaroons! I can't help thinking, Rowley, that you should have let the thieving devils alone; this expedition bates Banagher in folly!"

"Why?" asked Mellon, curtly; "or rather -- how?"

"Because your life is wanted for better service at Delhi, and not to be thrown away here, doing the work of constables and chowkeydars."

"Wantonly I will not throw my life away," replied Mellon, whom recent events had considerably saddened in manner; "What said Plato?"

"By the powers, it's little I know what he said!"

"That a man is placed in his station in life, even as a soldier is on his post, which he is not to quit, whatever may happen, until summoned by the commander who placed him there."

"Rumour makes these Pindaroons five hundred strong," said Doyle, after a pause; "and we are only eighty rank and file, Mellon."

"Hush! if foreknowledge will lead me into peril -- or what is worse, perhaps, into fear -- I would rather go on in silence; so don't let the men hear you, Pat."

"Caution is not a peculiarity of my country," retorted the Irishman.

"I don't think you understand me," said Mellon, in a low voice.

"Faith! but it's a changed man you are, Rowley, and grown mighty sententious too; but small blame to you, for that, after all you've undergone," said Doyle, and with something like a sigh, as he tossed away the end of his cigar; "poor Jack Harrower! It's sore my heart is when I see the uniform of his men, with their white facings, wings, and bugles, and think that he is not here among them. I wonder how Jack fared on that night of horror and sculduddery!"

Mellon bit his nether lip, and sighed bitterly. In his heart of hearts he shrunk from imagining how another might have fared, at the same time.

"With his Cornish manner, so blunt and so jolly, his clear eye, thick mustache, and close curly hair, somehow I always think I see Jack before me!"

"How -- why, Doyle?"

"He was such a manly fellow, and there was so much -- so much -- "

"Individuality about him?" suggested Mellon.

"Yes, there was -- that is the word, old fellow."

"Was, say you?"

"Exactly, Rowley."

"I hope to Heaven, Pat, your speaking in the past tense may prove a mistake in the end."

"So do I, with all my heart; but see -- there is Frank Temple whipping up that mettlesome team of his. Oh, by the powers of Moll Kelly! (whoever she was), but the cover dthraws!"

"At fifty yards -- ready!" cried Mellon, in a low, stern voice; and then every man grasped his rifle, and with his right fore-finger on the trigger, thought of that 11th of May in Delhi.

There was a sudden yell, which ascended through the dense interlacing branches of the forest into the clear sky of the Indian night, and a dark, supple, fierce,.and brawny horde, inspired by the combined activity of the monkey and the tiger, clad, some in brilliant parti-coloured garments, but many of them bare-legged and bare-armed, with only red turbans and dirty cummerbunds, with swords, tulwars, and bayonets flashing in the moonlight, sprung up from the jungle-grass, dropped from the trees, or issued from the dingles of the old primeval forest, to surround, plunder, and capture the women, whom they confidently believed the bullock-waggon to contain, and the patient driver of which they supposed to have lost his way, else why would he have tarried there so long?

But great and sudden were their terror and bewilderment when their leader, a gigantic Mahratta, was shot dead, with three others, in less than three seconds, by Temple's revolver, while at the same moment the Enfield rifles flashed redly out, and with deadly effect, from under the curtains, killing many at second-hand -- the conical rifle-bullets passing through two men in some instances, almost at the same time.

Before they could fire a shot -- before they could strike a blow, or recover from their consternation, a volley was poured into them at fifty yards -- almost point blank -- by the main body of the detachment, under Mellon, who shouted -- 

"Forward, men, with bayonet now! -- and remember Delhi -- remember the women and children!"

The cheer that comes best, and only from our British soldier -- no foreigner can attempt anything like it, except, perhaps, the Germans -- rose to something like a fierce yell at these words, as his little band rushed on, and without one shout of defiance or stroke of resistance, the marauders fled, leaving more than seventy of their number dead or dying around the waggon -- all ruffians of the deepest dye, reckless alike of life, or death, of cruelty or crime!

In the agony of their wounds they gnashed their teeth, and strove to bite the feet and legs of the soldiers, or to make upward stabs and slashes at them with their knives and tulwars; but "remember the women and babies!" was the cri-de-guerre, and the bayonet, or the butt-end of the rifle, soon quieted these obstreperous Pindaroons, and so closed the horrible scene.

Not a single European soldier was wounded, so successful, so complete had been the stratagem and surprise!

As all the Pindaroons were multifariously and elaborately armed, a great store of rare Indian weapons, such as matchlocks, poniards, and tulwars, many of them curiously inlaid, chased or damascened, were gleaned up, and, together with many of the Company's muskets and bayonets, cast into the bullock-waggon.

In the shawl girdles and wallets of the dead were found thousands of gold mohurs, rupees, nose-rings, evidently torn from the septum of the nose, amulets, anklets, bangles, and some relics of the Europeans slain at Meerut and on the roads leading thereto, such as seals, signet and wedding-rings, and among many other touching mementos, such as hair-lockets, the coral rattle of a poor baby, with its silver bells encrusted with blood!

"Now, soldiers, this is our first act of retribution -- our first instalment of vengeance!" said Mellon, with a grim smile, as he wiped the dew from the blade of his sword, and jerked it into the sheath.

"And not a man of us touched -- by the Trout of Kilgavower, but here's luck!" added Pat Doyle, as the bullocks were got in motion; and leaving the Pindaroons to the care of their compatriots, or the jackals, the party formed fours, and retraced their steps to Meerut.

CHAPTER XIII.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

Polly Weston, after she was dragged into the palace garden by Baboo Bulli Sing, remained for a time conscious only of the perilous state of her father, literally believing that she had been brought there to aid him, and quite oblivious of the growing hubbub in the city outside, for the poor girl failed to understand altogether, what it was all about, or what object the hitherto quiet and orderly natives had in view.

The face of the unfortunate clergyman, his shirt front and black clothes, were stained with the blood which flowed from the severe wound inflicted by the heavy lathee of the furious dervish; she wiped it away with her handkerchief; she tore the skirt of her dress to staunch the flow, the aspect of which filled her heart with agony.

He could not speak for a time, and she was thus long in discovering the exact nature of the outrage, and who committed it.

"Oh! papa -- my own dearest papa," she exclaimed, while placing his head on her bosom, and caressing it tenderly, "on my knees will I pray them to help you out of this place."

"Kneel not to them, but to Heaven -- pray not to them, they are ignorant heathens -- but to the Good Father of all," replied the Doctor in very broken accents, "He before whom so many, all unprepared for the terrible change, shall be sent on this bloody day."

"Oh! papa, what do you mean, I do not comprehend! What is about to happen?"

"'Blessed are the merciful, for they shall find mercy.' Where are Lena and Kate?"

"At home, papa."

"And Mellon?"

"With his soldiers, or perhaps at home too."

"Alas! alas!" He clasped his hands.

"Home where you must go with me now. Let me aid you to rise, papa -- how feeble you are! oh! make an effort!" she exclaimed amid a flood of tears, while, with all her strength, she assisted her father to rise; "our dear papa, whom Lena and Kate have tended and coddled so -- what are you not suffering now! But this wound,"

she added with a sudden gust of anger, "who gave it -- who dared to do it?"

"A native -- a dervish, in whose hands I was left by our kitmutgar, the ungrateful Assim Alee."

"Ah! that we had big Jack Harrower here, he would soon see to it."

The gate by which they had both been thrust into the palace garden, had long since been secured and locked. On one side rose the embattled wall thirty feet high, which encircles the whole palace and its precincts, guarded by seventeen great towers, and enclosing a space of buildings and gardens, a mile in length by more than a quarter of a mile broad, including the Selinghur Fort, on the north.

On the south side, towered up the wonderful facade of the palace, its pillared arcades of open arches, surmounted by gorgeous and projecting cornices, by glittering minarets and swelling domes of polished copper or gilded plates; its walls and peristyles of white marble, the carvings and capitals being of black marble or red stone, and its many gigantic windows hung with blinds and drapery of brilliant green or scarlet, fringed and tasselled with silver or gold. Heavy cannon were mounted at all the gates, but the greatest were at the old entrance, where, according to Bernier, there stood two gigantic elephants of stone, the first bearing an effigy of Jamiel, the famous Rajah of Chittore, and the second, that of his brother.

Between the gorgeous palace and the little wicket, against which Polly beat with her hands, spread, in all its oriental loveliness, the garden formed by Shah Jehan, but which must not be confounded with that of Shah-al-Imar which cost a million sterling, and is the same garden so celebrated by Moore in his "Lalla Rookh."

"Come, papa, they must open this gate," said Polly, adjusting her white crape bonnet and her somewhat disordered dress; "they have no business to put us in here, those very impertinent people."

"Do you not know where we are, Polly?"

"In the king's garden, it would seem -- a strange place, where Europeans are never admitted -- at least so Captain Douglas says, and he ought to know."

"My poor child!" moaned the doctor in great sickness of heart.

"Here comes that most absurd person again."

"Who, Polly!"

"The soubadar, Baboo Bulli Sing, whom we always laugh at on the course."

"He comes for no good purpose, Polly, love."

"I shall talk to him about that wicked wretch of a dervish, who dared to misuse you so; and as to Assim Alee, the kitmutgar, he shall be sent to the police office, handed over to the Kotwal and imprisoned."

Baboo heard her concluding remark, and he grinned as he approached.

He was gorgeously attired in very bright colours, with a diamond aigrette and bird of paradise plume in his green turban, and he was armed with a sabre, pistols, and poniard all glittering with precious stones. Four of the king's matchlock men, clad also in eastern costume, followed him. His dusky visage was flushed almost red, and his dark eyes were sparkling with triumph, and excitement, yet he spread over his exterior that singular calmness, which can be assumed by all Mohammedans when they choose.

"Aga Sahib," said the doctor, making a great effort to speak, for he knew but too well what the rising tumult in the city meant, "set free my child, and take my life if you seek it -- I am old, so what matter is it, whether I die now, or ten years hence; but set her free, I say, and willingly shall I bare my neck to the sword."

"Papa -- papa," exclaimed Polly in great bewilderment, "why talk so strangely?"

"Your daughter shall remain," replied Baboo in Hindostanee; "as yet, your mischievous life is not wanted, old Sower of Heresy, though the time may come, when had you a thousand lives, the sword of justice should take them all."

The shouts and screams, with the frequent explosions of musketry without, continued to increase, and several unhappy Europeans, covered with dust and Mood, their clothes disordered and torn -- people who in their despair, had somehow forced a passage into the royal gardens -- were now seen rushing towards the palace as a bourne of safety, for none as yet knew the treachery and complicity of the Mogul dynasty. Armed men followed, shooting and sabring them in all directions; others they seized, stripped to the skin, and bound cruelly and tightly to the trunks of the date-palms and other trees, to await the orders of the old king Mohammed Bahadoor, or his sons.

Polly, unable to look upon those dreadful scenes, hid her pale face in her father's breast, and thus they partly supported each other, standing under the fierce tropical sun, while Baboo and his escort looked frigidly on.

Among those slayers, now bristling with arms and spotted with blood, the Doctor recognised Assim Alee, his own kitmutgar, who came forward with a furious and insolent expression, brandishing the sword of Captain Douglas, which, but for the presence of Baboo, who had evidently received some special order concerning the Doctor, he would have used to some fatal purpose.

On beholding this ungrateful domestic, whom he had ever treated with kindness since they had landed together at Calcutta, and whom he had brought back from London, in the streets of which he had picked him up, when in a state of utter misery, selling religious tracts, patent vestas, and jabbering a song to the monotonous sound of a tom-tom:

"Man," the Doctor exclaimed, "if you are indeed a man, Assim Alee, answer me, does your prophet Mohammed sanction the slaughter of poor helpless women and little children, and the committal of cruelties such as these?"

"Yes -- so the holy Imams and the dervishes tell us -- we may slay all who are unbelievers."

"Does not the prophet say that such deeds will be punished in this world and in that which is to come?"

"I know not, sahib -- does the Koran say so?" asked the valet, a little abashed, apparently.

"Yes, in many places; I have studied it as well as the Bible of the Christians."

"Then you who know the Koran, ought to follow its precepts, and cast your Bible into the flames. By the holy Kaaba, how glibly this Feringhee fakir talks of the prophet!"

"Behold my daughter, Assim Alee, she is sinking with fear and exhaustion -- have you no gratitude for past kindness -- no truth to the bread and salt you have eaten under my roof for five years -- no compunction?"

"None!" was the cool reply, as the ex-valet leaned on the sword with which he had provided himself, and thrust his turban close down on his black eyebrows.

"Do we deserve this return at your hands?"

"To die is your destiny and hers -- to destroy you all is ours. It was ordained so, when God fixed the stars in Heaven, and how can we set aside that which was appointed to be?"

"All this is fanaticism, or madness, and raving, Assim," said the Doctor, anxiously and earnestly; he felt all the peril of his daughter's situation. Thought for himself, the single-hearted old man had none.

"It is neither raving nor madness; we obey God as the Hindoos obey Seva, and slay when the omens are favourable. You are all at our mercy, accursed Feringhee, so now the time of death has arrived!"

Polly, who had scarcely understood all this, as it passed in Hindostanee, now uttered a shriek, for the valet -- who had worked himself into a pitch of frenzy -- raised the sword, but Baboo Sing interposed his Damascus sabre, saying sternly:

"Enough of this, Weston sahib and his daughter are prisoners of the King, and to-morrow shall be brought before him in the Dewan Kbana."

"Thanks, soubadar," said Dr. Weston, with an air of intense relief and satisfaction; "we are saved, Polly, for the King of Delhi is a loyal subject of Queen Victoria, and will protect us."

"But Lena and Kate, papa?"

"Ah, Lena and Kate -- Lena and Kate!" said he, and then he wrung his hands with sudden anguish; "they are in the city -- God help them!"

Faint with loss of blood, Dr. Weston now reeled, and nearly fell; but Polly embraced and supported him with all her strength.

"My papa looks as if he was dying; oh, Assim Alee," she exclaimed in a piercing voice, "if you ever loved him, help me -- he has ever been so kind, so good to you."

"Missee Polle, he not dying -- but he die soon," replied the valet in his broken English, "sartin and sure, if you prove obstinate -- "

"How -- to whom?"

"Mirza Abubeker," said the valet, with a grin.

"Chup-chup!" (silence) said Baboo, striking Assim with the flat side of his sabre; "begone to the city -- there's work for you there. Take the white sahib to the Tower of the Sally-port," he added to two of his matchlock men, "and keep him there till further orders. To the palace with the girl," said he to the others; "she must be brought before Mirza Abubeker to-morrow, as we all value our heads."

Father and daughter were now torn apart. Pilled with despair and grief, Dr. Weston strove to break away from the two brawny matchlock men, but in vain; he could but throw his hands and eyes in deep entreaty upward, while a cold perspiration burst over him.

"Oh, Father, who art in Heaven, save my poor children -- my pure and spotless lambs -- from those ravening wolves, those pitiless heathens! Save those who cannot save themselves!"

Polly, poor child -- she was only in her sixteenth year -- raised two fairy like hands, so tiny, white, and delicate they were, in supplication for her old father, and for him only. Guiltless, spotless, and sinless, the pale English girl was without fear for herself, but her bosom heaved painfully, respiration became difficult; her lips were parted, her eyes pleaded, but her voice was gone.

They were separated, with arms outstretched, and streaming eyes turned towards each other. If Dr. Weston had a favourite among his children, or could choose between them, the odds were perhaps for this golden-haired Hebe, for Polly his youngest born, and at that moment the keen iron entered his soul.

Will they ever meet again, those hearts so tender and so loving -- so wrung with anguish and terror? We shall see.

She was conveyed into the palace, while her father was roughly dragged round the ramparts that guard the river front, and thrust into a strong chamber near the sally-port, which opens in the centre of that long extent of wall, and exactly mid-way between the Shah Boorj and the Raj Ghat Gate, facing a sandy isle of the Jumna, about a mile-and-a-half long, and the bank where elephants were fought, and warlike sports went on of old.

Left there to his own reflections, their tenor may be imagined. Two of his daughters were, he knew, in the city, and the third was in the palace of the Moguls, a prisoner -- a foredoomed victim!

Better that all three should be in their graves. He thought of their mother, and strove to calm himself and pray, and to address himself in fitting terms to that Divine Master whom he had served with all his heart and soul for so many years in earnestness and humility; but delirium sometimes seized him, and he beat his breast and temples as the voice, the presence, and maternal love of his dead wife came back to memory.

All that day and part of the next, the reports of cannon and musketry, with occasional shrieks and outcries, rang round the walls of the palace, which were shaken to their very foundation by the terrible explosion of the arsenal.

Though Dr. Weston, stretched on a humble charpoy, or native bed, imagined the most dreadful things, conjuring up images that froze his blood, Lena was with Jack Harrower, Kate for the time was only half-a-mile distant in the house in Chandney Choke, and Polly was simply kept an unmolested prisoner in an apartment of the zenana, carefully watched by an ayah, lest she might harm herself by springing over a window, or so forth.

Her admirer, Mirza Abubeker, had no time to see her then; the Meerut mutineers and others, were pouring into the city, and his royal hands were quite full of serious employment.

So, when day began to dawn once more upon the city and plains of Delhi, both father and daughter found that they had actually survived the night, but had before them a hopeless day, of which they could not foresee the close.

CHAPTER XIV.

MIRZA ABUBEKER.

We have much to relate of undeserved sorrow and unexampled suffering -- of religious fanaticism and Oriental cruelty, incident to that terrible time, when we, who had conquered alike the Rajpoot, the Sikh, the Ghoorka, and Mahratta, were fugitives or victims; when the tales of slaughter make every heart in Britain throb; when our gentle and delicate English ladies actually learned to load and discharge the Enfield rifle; when peaceful civilians slept with revolvers under their pillows, and loaded muskets by their side, and when poor little children in their innocence, with their golden hair and their bright English faces, clapped their plump little hands to the exploding bomb, or with childish fearlessness ran after the black cannon shot, as after a toy, while it ricochettcd through the fatal entrenchment at Cawnporc, and when mothers watched and wept, and fathers and comrades awaited Sir James Outram's orders, during the long -- long dreary nights in the Alumbagh.

Early next morning the ayah who had charge of Polly Weston -- disturbing the almost childlike prayer offered up on her knees .to her father in heaven, that "He would watch over her dear papa, Lena and Kate, and all their friends, and would love and guard herself;" the ayah, we say, a dingy little copper-coloured woman, clad almost entirely in scarlet, was ordered by the sable official in charge of the zenana, to deliver her over to Baboo Sing; and so she came forth with faltering footsteps, pale as marble, after a day of terror and grief, followed by a night of sleeplessness and the keenest anxiety. She had dark circles round her eyes, and an almost haggard expression of fear.

Was this the Polly who seemed born only to laugh, to flirt so artlessly, and be always happy?

Now she was suddenly precipitated into all the horrors and barbarism, for such they were, (with all the splendour and luxury of India), of manners and ideas which have been unchanged since England was a Saxon heptarchy, or a Danish conquest, and which had existed for centuries before.

On seeing Baboo Sing and a matchlock man, she shrunk back with such undisguised fear and loathing, that she nearly sank at his feet: but the dusky soubadar, after a day of unrestrained rapine in the streets, and a night of revelling and debauchery in the palace, was in no mood to be treated thus, so a sudden gust of rage seized him. A dangerous red gleam passed over his glossy black eyes, and his lips became pale and fierce.

As she was about to elude his hand, he grasped her rudely by the shoulder, tearing all her muslin dress, and rending her bodice, and then the lovely English girl stood palpitating before them in all the ivory whiteness of her skin, bare almost to the slender waist, her glorious golden hair rolling in masses over her shoulders and delicate bosom, her blue eyes full of anguish and utter dismay, the parted lips showing her close, small teeth, and her lovely hands, the while, were crossed on her breast in prayer and entreaty; but in her stature, mere girl though she was, and in her bulk she contrasted most favourably with the dark and diminutive Hindoo maids, who, in their sixteenth year, are both lean and passee; and so thought Baboo Bulli Sing, who was somewhat of a connoiseur.

He surveyed her with a strange expression of mingled covetousness, cruelty, and admiration.

"By the soul of Mohammed!" he was thinking, "to see this white-skinned Feringhee girl, with her thick golden hair falling over her shoulders thus, and almost veiling her face and her blue eyes too, gives one very odd thoughts. Why should I not keep her to myself? But she is known to be here, and must be produced with the rest!"

Was she so utterly friendless or abandoned by Fate, as to be quite at the mercy of this man, Baboo Sing, at whom she and her companions had so often laughed, and were wont to characterise as a "perfect toad," when they rode or drove past him on the course?

Her natural indignation was coming to her aid again, when the noise of approaching shouts below the palace wall caused Baboo to look over the parapet, and seizing her by the wrist, he dragged her forward and exclaimed -- 

"Look! see what awaits you, Missee Baba, if you fail to obey us, and more than all to find favour with Mirza Abubeker!"

The morning sun, in all his glory, was streaming down the long and magnificent vista of Chandney Choke -- the street of silver -- the entire length of which is visible, due westward from the palace to where it terminates at the Lahore Gate; and along this street a wild rabble was now advancing.

Polly turned her sad eyes instinctively to a well-known house, with green blinds and double verandahs, which stood nearly opposite the kotwally (or mayoralty) and its adjoining mosque, a little place, where Nadir Shah the great Persian sovereign and victor, sat during the massacre in 1737, quietly, securely, and in solitude, while fifty thousand persons perished by the swords of his followers, in the streets of Delhi. It was the house where Rowley Mellon had lodged with the Parsee Mohassan Jamsetjee; but little could Polly imagine, that at that moment her dear sister Kate was then safe in Rowley's old couch, in a species of stupor, conduced by grief and exhaustion, rather than sleep.

A dreadful yell now passed along the street below, and with it came the sound of wheels, and the rush of thousands of bare or slippered feet. Surrounded by this shrieking horde in turbans and cummerbunds of all colours, bare-legged and bare-armed, or in tattered sepoy uniforms, were two English ladies, stripped perfectly nude and bound by their tender limbs with ropes to two nine-pounder gun-carriages, on which, with their dishevelled hair sweeping the streets, they were drawn away towards the market place, amid the jeers and mockery of the lowest ruffians in Delhi, escaped convicts, budmashes, coolies, and kindalahs, who are Hindoo vagabonds, of a caste so low that it was once lawful for others to put them to death, if they approached too near, for they were deemed as the Cagots of India.

As this appalling cavalcade swept past with a roar that shook the palace walls, Polly nearly fainted.

"Hah!" said Baboo with a fierce grin, "one of those Feringhees is a niece of the agah Sahib (the great Law-judge) Leslie."

One of the gay, the beautiful, and the wealthy Leslies? Oh, what a change was here? Who might the other victim be? But she dared not ask herself; and now, from time to time, a wilder yell rose up from the distant market place.

Ere nightfall the poor remains of the two ladies were unbound from the carriages by coolies, and thrown to the jackals and pariah dogs, outside the Wellesley bastion.

After this terrible scene Polly made no further resistance; she acted simply like an automaton, and, ere long, she found herself in the Dewan Khana.

Through the lofty windows of that white marble hall, the sun of the Indian morning was pouring a flood of splendour, on the painted pillars, the golden cornices, arches, arabesques, and the glories of the throne, the jewels of which seemed a mass of prisms; but the same light fell upon a crowd of helpless and hapless beings -- European and Eurasian women and girls, many of whom were disfigured with blood and bruises, and all of whom had their dresses torn, and their hair in disorder, for all had lost or been deprived of their bonnets.

They were hemmed together at the lower end of this great audience-hall, under a guard of sepoys and matchlock men. "To such a plight," says an eloquent writer, "had come the bloom which once, fresh from the breezes of home, had charmed and puzzled Calcutta, and the toilettes, whose importation and inspection supplied matter for months' conjecture and a week's happy occupation. Where were now the tact, the cultivation, and all the indefinable graces of refined womanhood? Simplicity and affectation, amiability and pride, coquetry and reserve, discretion and sweet susceptibility were here all confounded in a dull uniformity of woe."

Baboo Sing, and a tall man in silver grey uniform, with a horrible face, having only two wide red nostrils for a nose, Shumshoodeen Khan the Bissaldar, were eyeing this herd of poor girls as wolves might eye a flock of frightened lambs; but now they were all thrust forth from the hall, and, poor creatures, their fates were sealed, soon after!

The last who left the royal presence with those unfortunate beings, were the Fakir Gunga Rai, with his mouth full of betel-leaf, and the two valets, Asshn Alee and Ferukh Pandy. The latter was armed with Jack Harrower's double barrelled rifle, and wore a suit of his master's ample undress uniform, which, on his lean little figure, would hare been, at any other time, intensely absurd.

"Oh, Cousin Polly -- dear, kind, Cousin Polly," cried a pleading little voice, as the captives were driven forth, and starting as if she had received a galvanic shock, Polly would have rushed after the crowd, for the speaker was little Willie, who had been gleaned up among others near the Cashmere Gate; "take me home -- take me home to Cousin Lena -- I am so frightened and so hungry!"

"Oh my love, my angel, Willie!" cried Polly, in greater agony of soul than ever, to hear a voice as it were from home; but she could see nothing of the child, who was a loveable little pet of six years, with blue eyes, cheeks like winter apples, and curly hair as golden as her own.

She was now brought forward before the gilded chair, in which, with his legs folded under him, like a regal tailor, on cushions of crimson satin and cloth of gold, sat Mirza Abubeker, who, from under the circle of an immense turban, was eyeing her with as much complacency and pleasure as it was possible for his blase nature to feel; while at the verge of the royal carpet Baboo Bulli Sing salaamed for a dozen of times, on each occasion making his head almost touch the ground.

The prince was an effete, soft, sleepy, and sensual looking man, with small cunning eyes, and thick, full, red lips; and there was an overfed, and greasy aspect about his yellow skin that made Polly shudder. As he relinquished to an attendant the curling snakes of a magnificent hookah, the bowl of which stood at some distance off, she had only a confused idea of a man regarding her with keen, black, twinkling eyes; that his dress seemed a strange arrangement of the richest shawls and masses of jewels, for the smallest sapphire that sparkled in his turban, on his brown fingers, or the hilt of his poniard, might have made a London beauty happy, or a burglar independent.

In letters of gold, on the white cornice above the throne, were those words which the Shah Allum ordered to be placed there, and they were a mockery of the misery of which that place was too often the scene.

"If there be a Paradise upon earth,
It is here -- it is here -- it is here!"

Mirza Abubeker was alone in the Dewart Khana on this stirring morning. The senile, but withal cruel old king had not yet emerged from his zenana, and Mogul had already assumed his place as commander-in-chief of the revolted sepoys, and was laboriously endeavouring to act his part as such among them.

"She is fit for Paradise!" exclaimed Abubeker, in Hindostanee, on finding the result of his inspection satisfactory; then he added in tolerably good English, "do not be alarmed, Missee Weston; you shall not be injured -- no, not even to one hair of your head. You must surely remember me, and know me well?"

"My Lord," said she, suddenly gathering courage from despair, and something also from his speech; "you know my dear papa -- you were kind to my sisters and to me -- once -- once -- ," sobs choked her utterance, "you sent us all presents of Champac ornaments and Cashmere shawls -- you may remember, my lord -- "

"Oh yes -- perfectly."

"You did us that honour -- "

"I mean to do you a still greater," said Abubeker, as his face suddenly lighted up, and the girl shuddered again, as his meaning began to dawn upon her, for his black eyes, usually so sleepy in expression, now looked straight into hers, and terrified her trembling heart.

"Oh my lord," said she, folding her hands, "have pity upon me -- upon us all!"

"The voice of the little Feringhee maiden is so sweet, that it would charm even the snakes in the jungle," said the prince to his henchman.

"I would speak of my father, of my dear papa, who was cruelly treated yesterday by one of your people. You know English well, my lord," she added, throwing herself upon her knees, and heedless of the eyes of the matchlock guard which stood beside the royal chair; "if he -- he -- if he is yet in life," she sobbed, lifting up her hands and eyes in the most touching manner, "spare him, and let me see him -- and we shall never cease to pray for and to bless you."

"The prayers of infidels are but as curses. But to see him?"

"Yes, my lord -- oh, take me to him!"

"That is impossible now."

"Why -- he is dead.! he is dead!" she cried, wildly.

"He is not -- I swear it by the head of my father, the King! but it is simply this, that no other man's eye than mine -- not even his -- shall sec you after to-day, Miss Weston!"

"Spare him, and set him free!" implored the girl, in desperation and reckless misery.

"He shall be spared -- if possible," he added, in Hindostanee.

"Have you no fear, my lord, for all this terrible work -- all those crimes? You must know that a dreadful punishment awaits you, and all your people!"

"The little Feringhee actually beards us under the shadow of the peacock throne!" said Abubeker, laughing; "but you know not of what you talk," he added, with complacency and perfect gentleness. "The Sultan of Roum, and the King and Lord of Egypt, will allow no more of your people to come hither, even if Brigadier Napoleon aided them, for they shall all perish under cannon-shot in the Red Sea, as you name the ocean of Kolzom."

"Oh! no, Prince -- be wary and merciful in time -- you cannot stand against our power with success in the end."

"You are bold for a Feringhee, Missee Pollee," said the prince, still good-humouredly; "by the way, that is an absurd name, and we must have it changed, Baboo."

'"If she will allow us, most high," replied Baboo Sing, in their own guttural language.

"Whether she wills it or not."

"Then what shall it be?"

"Amena -- no; she was the mother of the prophet: Fatema; she was his daughter, and one of the four perfect women. To name an infidel so were a blasphemy. Let it be Nour-mahal -- (light of the zenana) -- already has the Queen of Delhi been so named; but she was one of the Faithful -- not a white slave girl like this."

"Good, most high."

"Then Nour-mahal be it -- tell the chief ayah."

"She is beautiful as the rose of a hundred leaves!"

"Have her placed in that corner of the zenana which adjoins the Water-gate."

"It is the least comfortable, most high."

"How?"

"For there the water from Shah Boorj flows close to the wall."

"That matters not -- it is the most secluded; and on your lives see that none approach her," replied Abubeker, who could not forget that he had a troublesome and jealous wife, who, though one of four, was capable of committing any enormity on a mere slave girl; "you shall be most safely cared for, Missee Weston," said he, salaaming with both hands; "and when you are more composed, I shall have the pleasure of visiting you in person; till then it is useless to speak to you."

"My poor papa -- " she began to urge.

"Is safe, as yet -- of that be assured."

"But where, my lord?"

"Within these walls."

"Safe! -- oh! thanks -- thanks! and you will -- "

"By my soul, and the shirt of the Prophet! this wearies me -- take her away, and instantly," said Abubeker, with sudden irritation; and in the hands of an ayah, and two men, dark as negroes, but clad in spotless white turbans and dresses, Polly Weston was led away she knew not whither, for the whole palace seemed to be whirling round her, and by noon she was in a raging fever.

It was not often that Abubeker swore by anything so sacred as the shirt of the prophet, which is a famous relic, or rather a rag, preserved at Candahar, where it was once worshipped by Shah Soojah, escorted by a British guard of honour, to the great scandal of the evangelisers; but now the soubadar of the palace matchlock men could not repress his astonishment at the confident bearing of the captive girl.

"What!" he exclaimed, "a wretched little Feringhee girl, while we are cutting her people into kabobs, dare to flout one of the Moguls -- a Prince of Delhi, for whom alone the sun rises and sets! A son of Mahommed Bahadoor Shah, who, if he were to say at midnight, 'It is noon,' the moon and stars would disappear, and the sun shine out."

Compliments quite as sapient as these were once spoken in the gardens and ante-chambers of Versailles, in the days of the Grand Monarque, and his successor.

"She is likely to prove dreadfully obstinate," said the prince, as Baboo assisted him to rise from that luxurious chair, which had four rests, on swivels, for the elbows and knees; "and there is another misfortune -- I fear she is about to have a serious illness, and we do not understand the ways of these Feringhees."

"A hakim might see her."

"Not after she has seen me," replied the prince; "then I fear the fiery jealousy of Azeezun."

The lady herein referred to was the prince's chief wife, and instigator of many cruelties, as we afterwards learned, when the whole family, in the following January, were tried by a General Court Martial for treason and murder.

"I would blow the old Feringhee moolah, her father, from a mortar, and before her very eyes!" said the soubadar, indignantly.

"Why?"

"As a lesson of obedience to this Missee Pollee."

"You would achieve little by that," replied the prince, buckling on a magnificent sabre, which once belonged to old Runjeet Sing, the King of Lahore.

"How then, most high, are you to stoop and sue to a Feringhee girl?"

"I scarcely know."

"May I, Mirza, in all humility, presume to suggest?"

"Suggest then, at once," said Abubeker, with a dark look, for like some lazy natures, he could be irritable enough at times, if thwarted.

"Detain the padre Weston in prison near the Sally-port, and keep his life or death even as a sword hanging over her head, and to save him she will yield in the end."

The prince laughed approvingly.

"So be it; by the black stone of the Kaaba, it is not a bad idea! and now for my horse -- I have to see Shumshoodeen Khan and the sowars of our faithful 3rd Light Cavalry, on parade near the garden of Shah-al-Imar, so let us begone."

The prince was impatient to begin his new duties as General of his father's cavalry; but the cruel advice of Baboo Sing was taken, and for a time the life of the unhappy Dr. Weston was only spared for a purpose of which he knew very little.

CHAPTER XV.

IN THE GROVE OP THE THREE TEMPLES.

While thus Dr. Weston and his two daughters, and even the orphan child, little Willie, all severed and apart, remained helpless prisoners in the city of Delhi, Jack Harrower, leading by the Bridle the artillery horse on which he had mounted Lena, set out due north, in hopes to strike upon the Meerut road, which, in the confusion of the time and hurry of the whole episode, he had contrived to miss; thus, he could find no means of crossing the Doab Canal and getting to the east side of the water, the revolters, for the express purpose of mischief, or to prevent fugitives from getting away, having broken down and destroyed two of the bridges.

"Oh, for a thousand -- aye, even five hundred, of the men of Inkermann or Balaclava!" exclaimed Harrower, as he looked back to the beautiful city, above the embattled walls of which the red and wavering flames -were rising in twenty places.

Yes; or had he but one half of his own gallant regiment, or of those who, under Neil and Nicholson, Campbell and Havelock, afterwards marched to vengeance and retribution, he might have made the remainder of that night a dear one to the Pandies and the dynasty of the Moguls; but he was a fugitive now, and for the present such wishes were futile.

If his thoughts were fiery and fierce, Lena's were all softness and sorrow.

"Ah, Harrower," said she, "how difficult it is to think of the scenes of horror, the blood, and desolation we have witnessed, and yet believe this to be a part of 'that world which God made and said it was good.'"

"'God made the country,' Lena, but the Panuies made the town," replied Harrower, grimly, as he thought of his slaughtered friends and of his men. Who among them had escaped, and who perished? Time alone could tell.

He knew not in that time of doubt and flight, that little more than a quarter of a mile distant from where he and Lena were proceeding in anxiety and dread, the remnant of his once fine company under Frank Temple, of Mellon's party of the Bengal Fusiliers, with Rudkin and other fugitives from the house of Sir Theophilus Metcalfe, were making the best of their way to Meerut, gallant Pat Morris Doyle, like several others, carrying a child which he had picked up in the scramble, but belonging he knew not to whom, nor did he care, so that "the life of the little spalpeen was saved."

Harrower and Lena proceeded in a silence broken only by a strange interjection occasionally from him and a sob from her, as if her swollen heart was bursting.

"Oh, that I had some right to caress and console her -- to kiss those hot salt tears away!" whispered Jack to himself.

She thought only of her lost or scattered family, scattered never to be reunited again, even in the grave, perhaps; but though he mourned them sincerely, his chief anxiety was the protection of her, and her conveyance to a place of safety. There were the dews of night to be dreaded, with their consequent fevers and agues; there were also the wild animals with which the woods and dense jungle abounded, and to scare which he dared not light a fire: boars, bears, wolves, tigers, and panthers, and more than all these, there were the fanatical natives of all castes and communities.

Thus, every casual sound made him start, to pause, reconnoitre, and listen, pistol in hand, and his heart really leapt, when now and then a shrill halloo came from a vast distance on the clear night air.

To Jack there was one good grain of comfort in all this predicament; Fate had cast Lena into his care or keeping, and not that of Mark Rudkin; and in this single instance, at least, his star was in the ascendant.

"Endeavour to control your excessive grief, dear Lena," said he, holding the horse by one hand, and placing the other caressingly on her arm; "hope that all, at least, are not quite lost, and that you may soon see them again, for we know not what a day may bring forth. I am, I know, a blunt fellow, and not very capable of consoling the afflicted; but it seems to me, somehow, as if your folks were so good and amiable, that Heaven will watch over them, so hope for the best until we learn the worst."

"True, Jack, true; but how can I have hope in my own heart when, in spite of all you urge, I fear it has long since died out of yours? But I shall endeavour to restrain my tears -- they worry you, perhaps, and lest they exhaust me, for I know that we may have much to undergo together."

Even in that hour of trouble the "we" sounded pleasantly in Jack's ear. Lena Weston's voice was so alluring that she might have won even a blind man to love her; and alone as they were together now, in that wild place, each time she spoke Jack felt like Claude Melnotte, "the old time come o'er him."

"Experience and peril have taught me, Lena," said he, "that self control is the most useful of all powers."

"Because it leads to the control of others."

"Exactly; and hence it is a power well worth attaining."

"You are a strong man, Jack, I only a feeble woman, broken in heart, crushed in spirit, and, I fear, a sore incumbrance to you."

"Lena, now you are not saying what you think; but I would to Heaven I knew where we are," said Harrower, to change the subject.

"We have missed the Meerut road certainly long ago; I have driven that way often with papa -- dearest papa -- and know it Well."

"We have missed the Doab Canal, too; those halloos which we heard made me diverge through the cotton fields to the left, so now we can but seek some place in which you can pass the night, and where I shall keep guard till day breaks, and then we may look about us."

A thin gauzy cloud which had partially obscured the moon, now passed away; her light streamed out in all its brilliance, and they discovered at the end of the narrow footway they had been pursuing, between a field of cotton and one of maize, a dense tope or grove of trees, into which, finding all still and quiet, they ventured to penetrate.

In the centre of the grove, was a cleared space of considerable extent, upon which the moon shone clearly. The trees were all of remarkable beauty, for there were the tamarind, the mango, the cassia, and high over all, the fanlike foliage of the drooping palm, and amid the shadows of all, the red fireflies were flashing to and fro.

In the centre was an alligator tank of great size, built entirely of white marble, in the clear shining water of which, floated great numbers of the beautiful scarlet lotus, having flowers much larger than those of the water lily: and on three sides of this tank were three beautiful little Hindoo temples, all exactly alike, their walls and domes being of snow-white marble, with flights of steps ascending to the pointed doorways, the carvings of which were as curiously and marvellously executed as those of Chinese ivory work. Each temple was lighted by three coloured lamps, and thus a flake of parti-coloured light streamed through each open doorway on the water of the tank, where they melted away in the moonshine.

These three temples were, of course, dedicated to the Creator, the Producer and the Destroyer, the triple godhead of Hindoo mythology. There then, in that solitary place, where only the devout would come to pray, in something of the same desperate hope that much about the same time animated Kate Weston, when she sought a temporary sanctuary in the great mosque of Shah Jehan -- Harrower resolved to bivouac for the remainder of the night.

He selected a place where the foliage was thickest, and there he unbitted and tethered the horse; he eased the girths, and at the risk of being scon in the bright moonlight, he brought it water in his shako from the tank, for he looked to this animal as being his chief means of saving Lena, though she had to ride most uncomfortably, by sitting on one side of a high-peaked military saddle.

When Jack dipped his cap in the tank, a shudder of repugnance escaped him, for a number of alligators -- fed up and fattened reptiles -- which had been lying in the water, especially in the. slimier portions thereof, motionless as trunks of trees, and looking not unlike them too, got suddenly into motion, rolling and surging about, with their little eyes glittering, and their tongueless jaws gaping wide.

"Disgusting monsters!" was the mode in which Jack apostrophised the animals sacred to these Hindoo shrines; "had I toppled in, by Jove! they'd have gobbled me up like a shrimp!"

Some of them were fully twenty feet long.

With the large cloak, which he had so thoughtfully brought from the gun-carriage, he made a species of couch for Lena Weston, in a place where the grass was dry and soft, and placing his flask for a moment to her lips, ho covered her up, carefully and tenderly from the dew which was falling now.

"Sleep if you can, Lena, dear," said he, "and I will watch you with a care that shall be untiring -- so fear not."

"Dear Jack, give me your hand," said she in a trembling voice.

Kneeling, he placed a hand in hers.

"No, no! you must not do that," he exclaimed, as she pressed it to her lips, and he felt her tears falling hotly on it.

"Jack, you are the only friend I have left me in the world now -- and I -- I know, am not worthy of all your kindness and devotion."

"Sleep, Lena, sleep," said he in a troubled voice, as he kissed both her hands, again spread the cloak carefully over her, and with his pistols, sat down by the root of a mango tree, to wait, to watch, and-to think.

For a time he heard only her sobs painfully at every second or third respiration; but erelong they came at greater intervals, and then in utter weariness, she slept, and the consciousness that she did so, made Harrower almost content; but, honest fellow, no sleep came to his eyes, he was painfully, acutely awake, and anxious only to remain so, though the events of the past day seemed one long and terrible dream. Actually a year seemed to have passed since the wedding party assembled in the English church for the nuptials of Kate and Rowley Mellon.

A large and feathery palm branch protected Lena from the falling dew, as it drooped all over her, like a natural canopy. Harrower could not resist the temptation to take one peep at her face, she slept so soundly, for terror and exhaustion had done their worst upon her.

"Thank Heaven," he murmured, "if uninjured by the dew, this deep sleep will prepare her for fresh exertion on the morrow."

He lifted aside the palm branch, and a white and silvery moonbeam fell on her pale face, which the cloak partly revealed, for she had stirred in a passing dream. As she slept, some fireflies, which he dared not dislodge, for fear of disturbing her, had settled among her dark hair, and gave her a strangely fairylike aspect in the moonlight; but now the loving watcher softly spread the coarse cape of the* gunner's cloak over her face; once more grasped his revolver and sat down alone to guard and to listen -- the solitary sentinel over all he loved on earth!

With what sorrowful pleasure he had contemplated the faultless delicacy of that soft English face which had all the dignity of high breeding, partaking of the unconscious air of refinement that was over all her tender person. Pale and wan, when awake, her eyes had all day been without the faintest look of composure, for a sudden, deep and wasting grief consumed her; but now she was happily oblivious, silent and calm under the load of sorrow that would again oppress her waking hours.

"How strange is all this -- how this queer world wags!" thought Jack, who also thought a cheroot -- he had floating visions of bitter beer and seltzer water with beaujolais -- would add greatly to his comfort; but he could no longer shout qui hie, for no valet was in attendance now. "How often I have wished for a ring, a faded ribbon, a glove that had been worn by Lena -- more than all for a lock of her hair, even after she had cast me over for that muff Rudkin -- not that I required anything to remind me of her, for she was never forgotten, nor those days at dear old Thorpe Audley -- and now I have her here alone with me, all to myself, in the wild Indian jungle -- my own Lena, trusting to me, the discarded Jack Harrower, for her life and safety; and she shall have both, if my heart's blood can ensure them. But she can only give me in return, her thanks, her gratitude -- gratitude, as any other woman might! Deuced hard this, for a fellow who has loved her as I have done -- who loves her as I still do! It is passing strange all this; but I wish we had a few files of the Cornish Light Infantry, to help us through it."

Jack now felt something of the truth of the axiom, that "the greatest luxury of love is its sense of protection, which curiously enough both precedes and follows love."

He could not have been asleep; he was too anxious and too much of a soldier for that: but lulled by the intense solitude of the grove after the fierce excitement of the past day, he had sunk into a reverie from which he was suddenly roused by seeing a man -- a native -- standing close by, in the full blaze of the moonlight, regarding both himself and the sleeper with grave and earnest attention.

CHAPTER XVI.

A HINDOO FARMER.

Seriously alarmed, Harrower sprang up with his six shooter half-cocked; but the stranger made a deprecating gesture, with a low salaam, and the next glance assured Jack that he was quite unarmed; but for all that, he might give an alarm, bring others on their track, and so prove dangerous: and while reflecting for a moment, whether or not it would be justifiable expedience, or wanton cruelty to pass his sword quietly through him, Harrower saw that he was a venerable Brahmin, with singularly regular, mild, and pleasing features -- one of those who in many parts of India, still adhere to the simple costume of their race, as everywhere, and in all ages of the world, there have been, and ever will be men of "the old school."

His attire consisted simply of two long pieces of white cotton, one wrapped round the waist, and hanging below the knees, the other thrown across the shoulders, loosely, so that at times, it could be brought over the head, like the belted plaid of a Scottish highlander. His brown legs, reduced to mere bone and brawn, were bare, but he had on embroidered slippers, with turned-up toes. He wore ear-rings and bracelets which seemed valuable, and even an elaborate necklace was partly hidden by his beard, which was long and white, and perfectly undyed by indigo or henna, perhaps his first departure from the ancient and time honoured customs of his people.

"Salaam, Sahib," he began, in Hindostanee, "be not alarmed! I am a peaceful old man, and the friend of your people."

"Salaam, to you," replied Jack, surlily, "but how am I to know that?"

"I am one who have neither the will nor the power to harm you," urged the Hindoo, meekly.

"'Tis well; I am, as you see, well armed," said Harrower, sternly; "but who are you?"

"I am Khoda Bux, a Hindoo ryot (farmer) and contractor of grain for the cantonments at Delhi. I presume the sahib and the mem sahib are fugitives, fleeing for their lives after the terrors of yesterday."

"We are, old man, and I hope, for the sake of mercy, and of she who is with me here, you will neither betray us to your own people, or to those of Mohammed Bahadoor Shah, who has too surely played the part of traitor."

"Brahma forbid!" replied the old man; "I have long traded in grain, rice, and maize, with your people -- yea, ever since Wellesley Sahib defeated Scindiah at the battle of Assaye, more than fifty years ago, when I was but a boy; and my youngest daughter, Safiyah, is an ayah in the family of padre Weston Sahib, who has ever treated her as one of his own children, and for his sake will I be true to my salt, and succour any of his people."

"What, are you the father of the ayah Safiyah, whom I have so often seen at Dr. Weston's? Here's luck!" shouted Jack, in English, and with his usual impetuosity, explained the whole affair to Miss Weston, who, on hearing a conversation going on near her, had started up in very pardonable alarm.

"Khoda Bux!" she exclaimed.

"The eldest daughter of Weston Sahib, Missee Lena!" said the old Hindoo, salaaming, as he instantly recognised her, for he never had gone to the cantonments on commissariat business, without visiting his daughter at the doctor's house; "oh, this is sad indeed! and the padre sahib and his other children -- and Safiyah -- where are they?"

"Alas, Khoda, I know not -- I know not!" replied Lena, wringing her hands; "asleep in death, but too probably."

"Living or dead the divine eyes of Brahma will be upon them," replied the Hindoo, into whose everyday life, like that of all the orientals, and the earlier Christians, religion entered largely. "I was saying a prayer by midnight in yonder temple, sahib -- it is my custom -- and fortunately chanced to pass this way. My house is close by; Missee Lena cannot stay here -- the dew will kill her. Shabash! Come, at the risk of my life I will conceal and protect the daughter of the good Weston Sahib, who has been ever so kind to me!"

"Can we trust this queer old fellow?" whispered Jack, in English, close -- very close -- into Lena's ear.

"Oh yes," exclaimed Lena, in an excess of gratitude, "good old Khoda Bux knows us all so well, that I have no doubt he will be true to his salt."

"I have not forgotten how true the sepoys have been to that commodity," replied Harrower, "but on the first sign of treachery he is a dead man! Lead on, my friend," he added, in Hindostanee, while placing Lena once more on horseback. "I trust your dwelling is pretty near at hand, for the roads are all beset by those I would be loth to meet, while she is in my care."

The Hindoo farmer who had not too many words to spare, salaamed low, and pointing northward with his hand, led them through his own fields of wheat and maize, towards his house, which stood about half a mile distant from the tank and grove of the Three Temples, near the hamlet of Soubapore, about six miles from Delhi, and fortunately in a woody and sequestered district.

Old Khoda Bux and his household received the fugitives with all the attention and kindness their circumstances required.

For three days they abode with him in peace and perfect seclusion, and Lena recovered a little strength, which was fortunate, as she had still much to undergo.

Inspired by the natural hope that the girl Safiyah, who was one of their many ayahs, or domestic servants (for the term does not at all times apply to a nurse), might leave the city, return to her father's house, and bring some tidings of the Doctor and other lost ones, Lena remained for some time with a tolerable aspect of contentment, at the house of Khoda Bux, and Harrower frequently complimented and encouraged her, in his own fashion, by saying:

"Keep up your spirit as you do, Lena; bravo! you are the same plucky girl as ever!"

Compelled to remain close within doors. Jack and she found the house of Khoda Bux an almost intolerable residence. Like all the dwellings of the poorer ryots, it was small, badly ventilated, children, cattle, and poultry being nearly all under one roof; but this mattered little to Khoda or the women of his household, as they were all a-field by cock-crow, and at work with spade and hoe among the sugar canes and rice fields.

He invariably began the day with prayer, ablutions, and then a whiff of tobacco. His wife tended him at meals, and ate the scraps after, and though the old fellow had rather hazy ideas of the relationship, or tie, that existed between Lena and Harrower, he half hinted that she should do the same, and eat when the white sahib was done. Khoda was perhaps kinder to his horses and cattle than to the women of his household. As a Brahmin he was a thorough believer in the transmigration of souls; he knew that in the next state of existence he might figure as a horse, a cow, or even an alligator, but certainly not as a woman.

Constrained by circumstances to accommodate themselves to the occasion, they had to share -- but at a board apart, and at a respectable distance, lest Khoda should lose caste by contamination -- the native messes prepared for the old farmer and the males of the household. These were served up on little brass trays, lined with fresh leaves, and consisted of pillaws, pickles, and chutnies, coarse chupaties covered with ghee or rancid butter, and cakes, that caused Lena to shudder, for they were made of grease, pepper, and sugar -- the leaves used being always those of the banian tree, which is sacred among the Hindoos, and is especially worshipped by those who have children. A draught of pure water from a ghurrah, or earthenware pot, with two handles, completed such a repast as this, after which Khoda would fondle his male grand-children for an hour or so; take a chupatty, an onion or so for his evening meal, and go again into the fields. So would pass the day, and still no tidings came from the city.

While faring thus, Jack began to have some English longings for a beef-steak, or a broiled bone, but dared not hint of such a thing, as the cow was sacred to Brahma, "and so, confound it, seems everything that is worth eating!" he muttered under his mustache.

Though, as a Hindoo, Khoda naturally despised women -- for among them no wife ever looks for kindness, or even attention, from her husband, who disdains even to mention her name, or to permit her to eat, until he has entirely finished -- Khoda had seen enough of what he considered the fantastic customs of the Europeans, to sympathise to a certain extent with Lena in her sorrow.

"Child!" said he in Hindostanee, quoting a Hindoo prayer, "do not weep. 'As a drop of water moves on the leaf of the lotus; thus, or more slippery is the life, even of the just; the company of the virtuous endures here but for a moment; that is the chariot to bear thee over land and ocean. Set not thy affections on foe or friend, on father or relative, in war or in peace; bear an equal mind towards all, and if thou desirest it, thou wilt soon be like Vishnu.'"

"What on earth can all this be about?" thought Harrower, who had quite failed to follow.

But to please Lena, Khoda Bux rode into Delhi on the evening of the third day, in search of intelligence.

He had barely been gone two hours, when he came galloping back to his dwelling with great perturbation expressed in his face.

"You must fly from hence at once, sahib," said he; "there is not a moment to be lost."

"What the deuce is up now, Khoda sahib?"

"A great body of mutineers, led by Soubadar Pershad Sing, are coming out of Delhi by the Cashmere Gate, to scour all the country, and as one of my people has joined them, I fear you may have been betrayed by him, and that my house will be searched."

"Oh, Khoda Bux," said Lena, "I fear your people are very wicked!"

"Why should they be otherwise?"

"How?"

"Is not wickedness sown broadcast over the world, like tares and weeds among the grain? Brahma ordained it should be so, for a time, till at the last day Seva shall destroy all, as your people have been destroyed in Delhi, for they tell me that not one European has escaped."

"Blundering old muff!" muttered Harrower, who saw the deadly pallor that spread over Lena's face at these words, "but others may have escaped as we have done."

"And like us, have found kind protectors, Khoda," said Lena, putting out her hand; but the pure Brahmin shrunk back from her touch.

"The people are more exasperated than ever," said he, "for now Mohammed Shah and Mirza Mogul, have proclaimed in the mosques and bazaars, by the mouths of the imams and dervishes, that your Eastern war, having left a great many widows, the Queen of England was about to send them here to marry them to the great chiefs of Oude, and the zemindars of Delhi, so that their children might inherit the land, and be brought up as Christians."

"Lena, can you conceive how such perilous stuff as this is believed in by those dingy fools?" said Harrower.

But this story, and many artful fabrications of a similar nature, were greedily believed and listened to, by the credulous natives of India.

"But now, sahib, away! To think of reaching Meerut is impossible"

"Where then?"

"There is but one way, ride north; I can but advise and commit you to the care of Brahma, or your own gods -- and to night, the daughter of Heaven."

"North, Khoda -- but to where?"

"To the great forest that lies between Soonput-Jheend and Kythul."

"The Lahore railroad was to go that way, but there is an end to all such things just now. And the nearest part of this forest"

"Lies distant, fifteen coses of Delhi."

"The devil! more than twenty miles, English," thought Jack; "we may be concealed there before morning; but how will she endure the privations to which she must be inevitably subjected!"

"Do not, as you value your lives, sleep under a tamarind tree," said Khoda Bux.

"Why?" asked Jack.

"Because its shadow produces leprosy; nor under a cocoa-nut tree without a prayer, because it is holy, and once produced children, till Brahma ordained that it should bring forth nuts alone."

"Decidedly Brahma had an eye to the parochial rates," said Harrower.

"The forest is full of ruined temples and old tombs -- there you will find shelter easily.

"Ruined temples and old tombs -- ugh!"

"Safe shelter, Sahib, till the present danger is past. I will give you food -- chupatties -- "

"I shudder at the name of that ill-omened cake!" said Lena.

"Rice, eggs, chillis, and a ghurrah for water; quick -- do I not hear a shout? Away! lest disgrace, and then death, be your nusweeb-kismet. May their fathers be burnt! -- those ungrateful dogs of Delhi. Hah! 'be my brother, or I will kill thee,' is a fine old Mohammedan proverb!"

While he muttered and talked, old Khoda, active as an eel, was making himself extremely useful; he buckled a lady's saddle -- a strange old affair it was -- on the artillery horse, for Lena; of a shawl his wife improvised a skirt for her, and she was soon mounted. A bag containing some provisions was slung to the saddle; Harrower once more looked to his pistols, presented Khoda with his bullion epaulettes, and some other ornaments of his uniform, which were useless now, and might only prove the means of detection, if the sun or moon shone on them; and taking Lena's horse by the bridle, guided for a few miles by the old Hindoo farmer, they once more set out on their perilous pilgrimage, just as the night began to close around them.

Khoda assured them that the road towards the forest was lonely and totally unfrequented; they kindly and gratefully bade him adieu, and keeping well to the south of the canal of Ali Merdan Khan, they hastened on, Lena with a sinking heart, and Harrower with an anxious one, for neither knew what an hour -- even ten minutes -- might bring forth; but he strove to be cheerful, and defy Fortune.

"Now, Lena," said he, "whip up that old artillery daisy-cutter -- make him trot; he goes as lazily as if still traced to his old nine-pounder."

"But you will be left behind."

"No fear of that; I can follow you at a good steady double, as we Light Infantry men say; and I am used to the pace. Moreover, I can cover the rear more effectually if we are pursued. The road seems narrowing to a species of gorge."

"Oh! Harrower -- oh, poor Jack! you will certainly kill yourself by running after me in that manner!" she exclaimed, as her horse trotted, and her lover ran to keep pace with it.

"Fear not, Lena," said he; "go ahead! For three miles I could go on thus, without even a five-minutes halt, and I am close on six feet, you know."

"But over such a road!"

"It certainly is a devil of a road -- and was never known to Macadam; but I've seen worse, when we served in Scinde."

Long before midnight they had reached, unseen and unmolested, the skirts of the great forest indicated by Khoda Bux, and then they . halted to consider what was to be done next, for an Indian forest, even if one is without human foes, is by no means the most pleasant place in the world wherein to pass the night, especially without a large fire, as a means of counteracting the effects of the dew, and to scare wild animals away.

"Nothing in this world is ever so bad, Lena, but it might be worse."

"Oh! Jack, what could be worse?" she exclaimed.

"If, instead of being May, this month was August, the rainy season, when for nights and days the whole sky seems to descend in ceaseless sheets of water, what would be our predicament then?"

"True, Jack -- true: I am most ungrateful."

"So let us thank Heaven it is May -- though we cannot call it a merry month," said Harrower, pointing to the beautiful moon, whose radiance silvered all the wonderful luxuriance of the dense forest, into which they penetrated a little way.

Often they were compelled to pause almost hopelessly among the jungle, a leafy wilderness, where the birds of Paradise, scared from their nests, were perching on the branches, in all the glory of their plumage, and where some of the most highly-prized plants, only to be met with in hothouses in Europe, were growing wild, as buttercups or daisies do at home.

CHAPTER XVII.

IN THE FOREST OP SOONPUT.

A Dread that Lena might be seized by an illness, perhaps a fever, on his hands, haunted Harrower incessantly, for what should he do then? India is the land of fevers; but even it such an extremity of evil did not come to pass, there was every prospect of her becoming ultimately exhausted by all she had undergone, or might yet have to undergo.

The three days of bodily rest and seclusion at the house of Khoda Bux had been a most fortunate circumstance, occurring as they did so soon after the wild tumult and terrible excitement of the flight from Delhi.

"Hark, Harrower!" said Lena, as they forced their way laboriously through the forest, intent only on finding a safe and secluded place of concealment; "what sound is that?"

"A sound there is no mistaking," said Harrower, bitterly; "it is a sepoy bugle sounding the 'advance-double-quick.' Some of those fellows must certainly be on our track, guided perhaps by Khoda's treacherous servant; and if so, we have just got here in time."

"Oh! Harrower, where will all this end?" exclaimed Lena.

Harrower sighed, but made no immediate reply, for where or how it would all end Heaven alone knew.

Some shrill hallooing now came on the night breeze, which was warm and gentle; but after a time even these sounds died away, and nothing was heard but the footsteps of Harrower and of the horse he led, as they crashed and trod down the thick leaves and dry fallen branches which lay in the dingle they traversed.

So thick were the branches overhead, that at times almost perfect darkness reigned below them. In other places the moon poured down a flood of silver sheen, that lighted up the dewy grass, the stems and plants, as if they were gemmed with diamonds or coated with crystal.

Erelong Lena's horse began to stumble among stones or masses of fallen masonry, over which an elaborate network of creepers, the growth of many years, was spread. Some arches and fallen columns next appeared, and before them stood one of the ruins to which Khoda Bux had referred -- a fragment of an old Hindoo temple, apparently.

Two arches of the Moorish or horse-shoe form, about eight feet high, were still entire; but the pillars from which they sprung, were buried to their capitals by the stones that had fallen from above, and the rank luxuriance of the vegetation of centuries.

Rocks or masonry closed up those arches on one side, making each a species of vault, and after discharging a half cartridge of his revolver into each, to ascertain that both were clear of anything dangerous, Harrower selected one as a sleeping place for Lena, and therein he deposited her, with all their earthly possessions; to wit, the bag of provisions, the old artillery cloak, and the ghurrah, which he filled with water from a runnel.

The horse was easily disposed of, being simply haltered to a tree, where, however, he might soon become the victim of a tiger, if one chanced to pass that way; and now again, as on the first night of their disasters, Harrower posted himself a sentinel, and sat upon some masonry at the mouth of the ruined arch, gazing alternately at the reclining form of Lena, or listlessly out into the forest that surrounded them.

A whispered "good night" was all they said, for conjecture or surmise had all been exhausted long ago.

Harrower knew not whether Lena slept, as he spoke no more, lest he might wake her, if happily she had found a temporary oblivion of their desolate condition. He was content to keep a guard over her while night lasted; but who was to keep the same guard over him, when nature became exhausted, and a necessity for sleep inexorably came?

Though a soldier, he could not but feel the loss of many a luxury that Indian service had rendered a necessity, and a second nature. There were no iced wines now, no tattywallah to drench the hot mattings and cool the air, no punkah or hookah with its snaky coils, no mosquito curtains, no Bass's pale ale, not even a cigar!

"But why should I regret all these things," thought he; "how much more must poor Lena suffer!"

Few things in India strike one more, than the wonderful luxuriance of the vegetation in some places. There in the forest of Soonput, the giant size of the banian, the mango, and cocoa-nut trees, of the graceful creepers that twined round them, and the form and colours of the flowers that grew below, formed a striking contrast to all that Britain could show in the same way; for the great red pines of a Scottish forest or the stateliest oaks of an English chase, were as garden shrubs to some of those trees that cast their shadows over the ruin where Lena and Harrower lurked, like a couple of gipsies or outcasts -- she the belle of many a ball-room, and he a dashing officer of one of our crack regiments of the line! And there too, were creepers, and vine trailers, covered with wonderful scarlet and blue flowers, in festoons a hundred feet long, woven from branch to branch, minutely as a gossamer web, while below spread the feathery jungle grass and the prickly pear: and through every opening in the roof of foliage overhead, the brilliant moonbeams shot aslant their flakes of silver light, reminding the watcher of the most glorious effects of the pantomimist, in his "transformation scene."

Harrower's mind was full of strange, and at times, not unpleasing thoughts. He was a single-hearted and high-souled fellow, and now something of the love of a father for a daughter, of a brother for a younger sister, of a lover for his love, of a protector for the feeble one that clings helplessly to him, seemed all to blend in Jack's sturdy yet tender heart, for Lena, and there was much of genuine chivalry in it too.

He loved her as dearly -- more perhaps than ever; yet cast as she was now upon his care, he studiously resolved that no hint of that love should ever escape him, though he found great difficulty in keeping his determination.

Lena was there, but his destiny was a strange one! He had no right to kiss away a single tear, to clasp her in his arms, to keep her there, assuring her that he loved her still, and that she was still his own; and yet it was impossible to forget, that she from whom he was compelled to keep so respectfully aloof, had been once his betrothed wife.

Anon there came other emotions, those of anger, even of ferocity against those who had wrought her so much suffering, and who thirsted for her life; of his own -- she once safe -- he recked but little! How strange, wild and melodramatic, after all the past, was their sudden seclusion from the world, and this daily intercourse between them.

"Ah, if I should only be saving her for Mark Rudkin, after all!" was Harrower's most worrying thought.

He was neither fanciful nor romantic, but somehow on this night, there came to his mind, vivid thoughts of his home in Cornwall, of his family fireside and the faces of the dead; of the bleak hills and the peak of Caddonburrow, with his little patrimonial dwelling, the tenants of which he envied at that time of peril. And then he thought of the quaint chapel hard by, built by one of his ancestors, who had been a crusader -- tradition said, for his effigy was there, cross-legged, with sword at side, shield on arm, and his hands clasped in prayer; and he remembered how that grim effigy had been an object of terror in boyhood, all the more that the name carved on the tomb was the same as his own -- "Johan de Harrower, Miles." His family had for ages been buried in and around that little Norman fane, and many monumental brasses testified to the fame they had borne among the men of Cornwall, long ago. Would he ever lie there?

"Why the deuce will that old place recur to me again and again?" thought he; "awfully slow work this -- I think a cheroot would cheer me."

The place, and the whole circumstances, were certainly calculated to inspire solemn thoughts, for an impressive silence reigned around him. The sunbeams even of the Indian noon, had scarcely ever penetrated the interwoven foliage, or reached the masses of giant leaves, strange creepers and bright yellow pumpkins, that lay below; and on the sprays hung "great globules of shining dew, the plash of which on the lower leaves, alone made any sound; once only, was the grave-like stillness broken by a strange bird winging its way swiftly overhead, and a second time, perhaps, by a snake -- Harrower could see its writhing coils, glittering like burnished metal -- as it glided through the grass and weeds below.

So passed the night.

Day broke, and still found Harrower sleepless, and at his post, when Lena, who for some time had been sorrowfully regarding him, came forth from the arch under which she had slept, and kindly, almost caressingly, laid a hand on his shoulder. He was cold and stiff -- chilled almost to the very marrow in his bones, by his night watch, and the dew was dank and wet on his thick mustache, and curly dark hair, yet the touch of that beloved hand sent a thrill to his heart.

"Lena!" said he.

She gave him a sad, an earnest, and stedfast glance, that had something noble and winning in it.

"Good-morning, Lena," said he; "you slept well, I trust?"

"I did sleep a little, Harrower," she replied, "thanks to your care and kindness; but oh, my poor friend, how chilled you are -- such work as this will kill you!"

"Fear not for mc" said he, with a cheerfulness that was very well assumed, as he wiped the dew from his revolver carefully, and replaced it in the pouch at his belt; "I am not so easily killed, Lena; but I know," he added smiling, "that you must have bivouacked by the roadside, or in a wet jungle for a month or so, ere you will know the real comfort and value of a soft blanket, and an English feather bed."

"Thank Heaven we have both been spared to see another day," said Lena; "now I shall watch while you sleep; and I am quite sure I could fire a pistol at anything."

"First you must prepare some breakfast from Khoda's bag, while I ungirth and groom our nag, for much of your safety depends upon how we can keep him fit for service, and see how mournfully he shakes the dew from his pendant ears."

So the day passed like the night, without adventure or disturbance; and Harrower, after Lena had long urged, and only when the absolute necessity of yielding came upon him, had a brief dose in the forenoon. After this, he examined the ruins, and came to the conclusion,

that until he could scheme out a steady and sure plan of procedure in some direction, no better place of concealment could be found.

The ruin was almost shapeless now, and whether it had been a tomb, a temple, or a dwelling, it was impossible to decide. Built on a small knoll, at the base of which flowed a nuddee, or rivulet of pure water; it was a mere wilderness of fallen stones amid which the two arches alone preserved any form. In one of these, Harrower stabled the horse and quartered himself; the other he apportioned to Lena, piling up in front of it, and in the entrance several large stones, as a barrier in case of a sudden attack from sepoys, or any wild animal. For a time, he could defend this narrow opening, as he had still his sword, with nearly sixty rounds of ammunition for his pistols.

Several times he ventured to leave Lena in this strange abode, and crept through the forest by the way they had entered it, to search for friend or foe, but without seeing either.

The chupatties smeared with ghee, the pepper cakes and dried fruits given them by the frugal Khoda Bux, with water from the adjacent nuddee, formed their only viands; but the former were soon disposed of, and the evening of the third day saw the little store exhausted, and no prospect before them, save that of starving in the wilderness.

Even Harrower's courage and cheerfulness began to sink now. He saw how pale and sunken Lena's cheek was becoming, and that a patch of dark skin was visible under her soft and saddened eyes. Her fine hair was growing matted, for there was no ayah now, with nimble fingers, to dress, perfume and wreathe it into beautiful braids.

Resolving that something energetic must be attempted, on the third evening, Harrower, full of much thought, sat muttering to himself, as the darkness was closing.

"Harrower, what are you saying?" asked Lena, as they sat side by side, staring out into the depths of the forest.

"Well, Lena -- don't laugh at me, for perhaps you may think it is not quite my way- -- but I was thanking God that I had been enabled thus far to protect you, and praying for strength to do more."

"How could I laugh at you, dear Jack, for such thoughts as these?" she exclaimed.

Jack's moustached lip was quivering as she spoke, and his clear eyes moistened; but Lena's drooped, for she felt that there was beginning to be again a tender bond between Harrower and herself.

He, on his part, had great difficulty in keeping to his resolutions, especially when Lena, after a pause, said in a low voice and with hesitation -- 

"And after all the past -- you -- you love me still, Jack?"

"Oh Lena -- you know I do -- "

"I remember to have read somewhere," said she, hurriedly to prevent him saying more, "but where, I know not, that love is better in a novel than in every day life, and that 'of all the roads to contentment, it is the most intricate and thorny, and people are so often wearied by the length and roughness of the way, that before they arrive at the long sought out possession, they find it not worth the trouble of the journey.'"

"I am no misanthrope; I have not yet learned to feel thus Lena, 'case-hardened' though I am. To love you once, Lena, is to love you for ever!" said poor Jack, forgetting his chivalric resolve and quite breaking down; "but pardon me, Lena," he added suddenly, "for this, I know, is neither a fitting time or place to talk of love to you."

"I thank you for your great delicacy, dear Harrower; but let us be friends always, and friends only."

"Why, Lena?"

"We shall find the tenderness and attachment of friendship -- especially after all we have undergone, more enduring -- "

"Than those of love?"

"Yes."

"You speak for yourself, Lena," said  Jack, gloomily; "I have never changed -- "

"No, dear Jack," said Lena, while her pale cheek actually reddened, for she felt that the conversation was taking a perilous turn; "and I because -- because I did change, am no longer worthy of you."

"Talk not so, Lena -- now at least -- "

"But amid the grief and horror we have endured and are enduring, do let us speak of something else."

"True, Lena -- I feel justly the slight reproach your words convey," replied Jack, who, to do him justice, was certainly not the first to broach the forbidden topic; "I had made a mental promise not to disturb your sorrow, by my own selfish thoughts; but now I shall talk to you of a plan -- or rather a resolution -- I have formed. I have plenty of ammunition and am a very fair marksman either with rifle or pistol; but if I shoot anything here, the report might bring, we know not who, upon us; and then without fuel or light, how are we to cook anything, when shot? To remain here is to starve; so by dawn to-morrow, or an hour before it -- whatever the risk or danger may be -- I shall ride back to the house of Khoda Bux, in search of more food and intelligence. Six days have elapsed now, since the retreat from Delhi, and we know not what turn events may have taken in that time."

CHAPTER XVIII.

ALONE.

"For your own sake, Harrower, I implore you to be wary," said Lena, as he prepared to depart next day, while the morning star was yet twinkling through the gloom of the forest, where she shuddered to be left alone.

"For your sake will I, rather," said he, cheerfully.

"No -- no -- think not of me."

"Whom else have I to think of, Lena? To me, your life is a sacred trust."

"But not beyond your own."

"Yes -- yes; a thousand times beyond my own!" he exclaimed, impetuously. "I can make my way well through the wood and jungle, Lena, so fear not for me. I have had my full share of hog spearing, snipe shooting, and tiger hunting, mounted on a shikaree (i.e., trained) elephant, and all these were not for nothing, or without enabling me to pick up some knowledge of wild places such as this; only that we have neither the golden mess-sherry, or the sparkling Simpkin, to make things pleasant."

Harrower calculated that he would be absent from Lena about four hours; they had already been three days and nights in the forest, without molestation or alarm; and it would be singular, if in the former short space of time, anything untoward should occur to her. He left with her, one of his revolvers, shewing her how to use it if necessary; and he implored her to remain closely concealed in the ruin, and not to leave it whatever she might see or hear; and then kissing her hand, he mounted, and disappeared in the shadowy twilight of the forest dingle, hastily and abruptly, as if he dreaded -- which he really did -- to protract their adieu.

Then indeed did Lena, as she looked at the dial of her watch, by the faint glimmer of the dawn, feel alone!

As the light came in with its tropical rapidity, and the sun rose above the forest, pouring a flood of radiance through every opening, her heart became a little more easy, her spirit more buoyant, she breathed more freely; she strove to feel more hopeful, and quite forgot that she was without food, which was fortunate, as not even the fragment of a chupatty remained.

If Harrower was attacked and wounded by hostile natives, it might be the means of causing both him and her, to perish, and if he was killed outright, or by any force of circumstances, could return no more, what then would become of her, without a friend, a guide or protector, alone, in that vast forest which covers the whole tract of country for so many miles north of the city of Delhi.

She thought the reflection selfish, and how bitter would be the gratification, that then she might weep freely for the loss of one, who had never ceased to think of her.

Harrower might return no more, and never might she know the reason why, or learn his fate. She felt the agonies of all this by anticipation, and had done so on the preceding evening when Jack first broached his plan; but the necessity for adopting some line of action, with the chance that he might see Safiyah (if she had returned to her father's house) made her acquiesce, in her great anxiety to learn something of her own family, and the state of affairs, in Delhi; but now that Jack was gone, she began to feel herself, as we have said, alone -- most terribly alone.

"Poor fellow -- poor dear fellow!" she repeated to herself, "how steadily he maintains that I was his first love, and shall be his last love! I don't deserve such faith."

"Thank Heaven that I was not thrown on the mercy, humanity, and companionship of Mark Rudkin!" she thought, after a pause; "that would now have been intolerable. At this moment I think I can see his cold and supercilious smile, his proud and unyielding bearing. But poor Mark -- I wonder if he escaped with life!"

It never occurred to Lena, or to Harrower either, probably, that their isolated situation was in some respects an awkward one. If it did, neither of them spoke of it, or ventured to approach the subject; but not even the veriest prudes of Calcutta -- that famous place for gup, or gossip -- could have found the most slender handle for it, in the fact of their being cast thus together, under all the circumstances, as fugitives, to save their lives, to escape from torture and dishonour; for in the terrible time of the mutiny, when happy households and loving family circles were scattered far and wide, men were thankful to entrust wives, children, and sisters to the care of all, or any, who could protect them, the sole bond, the greatest tie of all, being community of race, religion, or colour.

Left now entirely to her own reflections, Lena became absorbed in the most bitter and harassing thoughts.

The intense but futile longing to hear again her father's voice -- to see the faces of her sisters -- to learn their adventures (alas! if they survived), and to tell her own, grew painful at times. Would she ever again see the thin silver hairs and the benign features of her father? Kate's soft and beautiful face, and the gay, girlish brightness of Polly -- the light-hearted and laughing Polly, who used to boast playfully that she "could wind papa, Lena, Dicky, and every one else round her tiny finger, like a skein of silk?"

The loss of Willie was one of Lena's greatest griefs, for she had ever been as a mother to the little orphan cousin, who nestled at night beside her, and she was never tired of caressing his golden curls, of kissing his dimpled cheeks; and so the bright smile and the winning ways of the once happy child came vividly before her now.

That pretty baby boy whom she had so petted! If alive, where and with whom was he now? Treated as a Feringhee slave, perhaps, and to be reared as such! He used to be lavish of his kisses and caresses, especially to her, and as Lena thought of all his loving and artless ways, she mourned that the poor little affectionate heart might be cast among those who would coarsely, perhaps savagely, thrust its wealth of love and tenderness back upon itself.

But that little heart might be still enough now, for she remembered that the sepoys slew all male children at once -- there was no temporary reservation for them!

Too probably never more would she see any of those loved ones -- never more hear their voices.

Never more! There was something terrible in the conviction; and then, once again, forgetting that "a, great sorrow nobly borne, is a great dignity," she would indulge, unseen, in all the luxury of wild, unutterable woe.

Now that she was alone her courage completely gave way, and she reproached herself for not accompanying Harrower, and sharing every peril he might encounter. Better it was to face and know the worst, than endure the lingering torments of suspense.

Often while watching and guarding her as a sentinel during her snatches of troubled sleep, he had heard her in plaintive and yearning terms mention the names of her "papa, Kate; and Polly;" even "little Willie," and many others, but never his own.

"Well, well," Jack would think, "I must forgive her that omission; amid her sore trouble, why should she think of a great hulking fellow like me?"

The first hour of his absence passed quickly enough, for Lena was full of exciting thoughts, and from the time they had all entered the Flagstaff Tower, she had scarcely been alone till now. The second hour passed more slowly; then the third and fourth seemed long and weary, and after that time appeared to lag, as if its wheels stood still.

Lena consulted her watch -- her mamma's it had been, given to her by papa on a birthday, that seemed to have happened ages ago.

"Noon -- noon -- and he not yet returned!" she exclaimed.

She bent her gaze keenly down the forest vista by which she expected to see him come, but there was no movement yonder. Not a breath of wind stirred a leaf or twig, and the rays of the sun poured steadily aslant the silent dingle through the openings, and unchanging, as if painted in a picture.

She listened intently, but could hear only the beating of her heart and the loud but solemn hum of insect life around her; and then as noon passed away, and the sun's rays fell more aslant, there came forth a heavy odour of forest leaves and of flowers, self-sown, budding, blooming, or decaying; and this odour filled all the air above and below.

Poor Lena looking for his return, even as a bird in its lonely nest watches for the coming day, felt her misery increasing, and with it the conviction that this might only be the beginning of the dreaded end.

In her father's household at Delhi she had been accustomed to the attendance of at least thirty native servants, from the durwan who kept the door, to the dog-boy who had charge of Willie's terrier, including cooks, mattees, who cleaned the plate, lit the candles, and an ayah for herself and each of her sisters.

She felt sorely athirst. Harrower had thoughtfully filled the ghurrah with water from the runnel, but she had overturned it, spilling the contents. Her throat was parched, and yet she dared not venture from the ruin to refill the vessel or to suck berries in the wood, so what a change was here! She had to lie there, enduring all the heat and thirst of India, without a single alleviation -- she who had been accustomed to so many attendants, and whose slightest wish was never ungratified.

There was no gentle ayah now with her feather - fan to watch her, and handle the soft puff of tender wool dipped in cooling pearl powder; no forenoon siesta in a light robe de-chambre; no shady verandah into which the respectful and obedient kitmutgar could place the luxurious fauteuil on which she might recline and court the evening breeze from the gardens of the Jumna.

Suddenly a human figure caught Lena's eye. It was that of a man, a native, in a red cotton turban, and clad only with the dhottee (or short Indian substitute for trowsers) of the same material. A kind of basket was slung on his back, and a knife was stuck in his girdle. He was crawling through the jungle grass, on his hands and knees, at some distance from the ruins, and so high rose the feathery green herbage, that at times little more than the top of his red turban was visible.

For a moment her heart stood still, and then it beat with painful rapidity. She shrunk down and grasped the revolver; but so unstrung were her nerves and so violently did she tremble, that she could scarcely cock the weapon, or lift it.

She crouched down within the ruined arch and close behind the barrier of stones, that Jack had built in front of it, expecting every instant to see the scarlet turban and the dark face with its gleaming eyes and white teeth appear; but half an hour -- a month it seemed -- passed on; all remained still, and when, after a time, she peeped forth fearfully again, the crawling native had disappeared.

His motions had been singular and stealthy, and had served greatly to alarm and discompose her; and now, after all the weary excitement of . waiting and watching since daybreak, overcome by heat and the recent shock to her nervous system, a faintness came over the poor girl, and she sank into sleep for a time.

But Lena, though she knew it not, had been seen by the red turbanned Indian, who at the very moment that slumber closed her eyes, was creeping slowly and stealthily on his hands and knees, and with his knife in his teeth, up the back of the knoll from where the runnel flowed, to explore the ruins, from amid which, he had detected a pale face appear -- the face of a woman of the Ghora Logue, or white people.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE AYAH.

After quitting the forest, Harrower rode rapidly to the eastward, adhering as closely as he could remember, to the path by which he had come on the night of their flight from the house of Khoda Bux, and keeping to the south of the canal, or aqueduct of Ali Merdhan Khan, which was so thoroughly repaired by our Government in 1820, when the whole population of Delhi went out to meet the stream, throwing into it sweetmeats and flowers, the old king, Mohammed Bahadoor Shah leading the way.

From thence Harrower rode on till he reached the narrow way through the fields of cotton and sugar cane, and erelong, he saw before him the quaint but humble dwelling, which had afforded to himself and his delicate companion, a three days' shelter.

The sun was up now, and while Harrower reined in his horse and reconnoitred the house before approaching it, he saw with satisfaction, the thin spare figure of Khoda Bux, clad as usual in the two shapeless pieces of spotless white cotton, with his venerable beard floating in the soft breeze, as he came forth hoe in hand, to head his labourers in the sugar field.

His dark face and nervous manner expressed alike displeasure and alarm on recognising Harrower, whom he begged -- but in somewhat peremptory terms -- to begone.

"I generally keep up the Anglo-Indian custom of having a ride or a walk before breakfast, Khoda Bux," said Harrower, attempting to put a cheerful face on the matter; "but on this morning I am come in search of the very meal I mention."

"Your presence here before, might have cost me very dear, sahib," replied the old farmer, "those sons of burnt fathers, the sepoys, were about to destroy my dwelling, and would have done so, but for the authority of Pershad Sing, now Colonel of the Mapert-ka-Pultan, whose caste is as good as my own, and who protected me."

"I am sorry to hear of the risk you have run, good Khoda," said Harrower; "but I have returned for food; the daughter of the good Weston Sahib is starving in the forest yonder."

"You found shelter?"

"Yes -- in a ruin."

"I thought you could not fail to do so -- the forest is full of old buildings. My daughter Safiyah has returned in safety from Delhi."

"And what news does she bring?"

"You can ask her -- for see, she comes hither."

As Khoda spoke, his daughter, a middle-aged woman possessing keen, but handsome and even pleasing features, with enormous gold rings in her ears and wearing a dress of bright yellow cotton, which flowed over her head, shoulder, and skirts, came hurriedly forward. Between her and Harrower the recognition was quite mutual, and she wept as she kissed his hand.

"Now hasten away, sahib," said Khoda, with impatience, as he disdained this display of emotion, and as a Hindoo disliked a female of his household attracting special notice, "remember that as the price of my own life and of the lives of all who are dear to me, I promised to the Soubadar Pershad Sing, that never again should my roof give shelter to a Feringhee, and I must keep my word, for though old, I am not prepared to die, and as our holiest prayer has it, 'since the tree when felled, springs again from the root, from what root springs mortal man, when felled by the hand of death?'"

Of the family of Dr. Weston, the maid servant, Safiyah, could give Harrower no intelligence, save that the Kitmutgar Assim Alee, had lured the Doctor into the city, where he totally disappeared, "though the Mem Sahibs were told that he had gone, with Missee Pollee, to the Flagstaff Tower."

That such was not the case, Harrower knew well, and told her so; on which she wrung her hands with apprehensions of treachery.

"The mutineers are swelling rapidly into a great Mohammedan and Hindoo army," continued the Ayah, "the great Nana Sahib is in arms at the head of all the Mahrattas, of whom he is to be king, so the standard of the monkey-god will be unfurled against the British, by the side of the banner of the prophet."

"These are tidings from which small hope can be gathered," said Harrower.

"They have chopped into ammunition, all the magical lightning rods, by which, they say, your people with the aid of Eblis, could whisper their secrets from Calcutta to Lahore, and in an instant, though the distance between them is nearly seven hundred cosses of Delhi."

"You mean the telegraph wire?"

"Yes, sahib."

"The fools!" exclaimed Harrower, with a pretty common English adjective in addition.

From Safiyah, he learned how Judge Leslie and several others, had been taken out of a mosque after many days of hunger and thirst, and all shot in the burning sunshine by the sepoys of Pershad Sing; and from her, he learned also, the still more awful fate, of at least one of his daughters in the market-place. Harrower shuddered, and his blood grew alternately feverish and icy.

"Oh for the bayonets of the Thirty-Second!" he exclaimed.

And these Leslies -- the two brilliant, proud and rather imperious Scotch beauties, who never entered a ball-room, without looking around it with a sweeping gaze, to court admiration -- poor girls! thought Harrower, such an ending! What availed now their thousands in Indian bonds, the Sudder judge's shares in the Agra, and his East India railway scrip.

"I must not tell this to Lena -- Heavens! it would kill her, while the fate of Kate and Polly remain unknown!" said Harrower, aloud.

While Khoda, inspired by haste to get rid of a troublesome visitor, quite as much as by hospitality, was bringing some provisions from the house, and while Harrower was conversing with the ayah, and was deeply interested in all she had to relate, a native, who had been grubbing to all appearance very sedulously with his hoe, but who had been listening intently the while, now stole stealthily away through the sugar-canes, towards an adjacent village, with the full intention of rousing certain fanatics, and having the way to the forest beset, or the fugitives tracked out in the lurking-place they had chosen.

On learning that her young mistress to whom she was greatly attached, "Missee Weston -- Missee Lena," as she called her, was alone in the forest of Soonput, the faithful ayah became very much excited, and, with a flood of tears, insisted on making her way there; but Harrower felt that however great the comfort of such an attendant would be to Lena, the fact of having another female to protect would only add to his own troubles and difficulties.

He proposed, however, that if matters suited, and all remained quiet, to. return on the second day, and meet her near the grove of the Three Temples; and then he rode off towards Soonput, while the morning sun was yet low in the sky, and the dew lay deep and wet on every shrub and tree.

On the morning of the second day, and of the third and fourth, and of many succeeding days, the affectionate ayah went to the beautiful grove of the three white marble temples to keep her appointment, but she went on a futile errand, for "poor Harrower Sahib" never appeared again.

Chupatties of unleavened flour, rice cakes, and dried fruits, were all that the frugal larder of the abstemious Hindoo household could furnish once more; yet with these Jack Harrower gladly urged his horse at its best speed towards the forest.

It is Addison who observes somewhere, that of all disappointments one of love is the most difficult to overcome; that the passion itself softens and debilitates the heart, and renders it quite unable to resist adversity or suffering.

This may be the case, perhaps, at home, in the piping times of peace, and in a land with wellordered laws; but far away, in that wild country, where all was war, tumult, and devastation, Harrower felt himself inspired by his love, and enabled by the very peculiarity of his circumstances with Lena Weston, to rise superior to all adversity, and to feel that he could face the black devil himself, if he came within range of his pistols.

CHAPTER XX.

THE SNAKE CHARMER.

"Poor Lena!" thought Harrower, "I would that I might provide better fare for you than this. Chupatties and ghee -- ugh! for civilized beings like us who can appreciate delicate soups, and elaborate entrees -- even a slice of good English roast beef, the leg of a well-fed South-down, or highland mutton, with salad and dessert; this is a change with a vengeance -- a change all the greater after curries and chutnies, and other provocations of the Anglo-Indian appetite!"

The sharp whizzing of a shot or two, which missed him, followed by an uncouth yell, made Harrower start, and in an instant he found the narrow path beset by some twenty natives, barelegged and bare armed, as usual, but having bamboo hog-spears, clubs, and matchlocks. At least six of the party were furnished with the latter species of weapon, but, luckily, the matches were damp, and they did not all give fire.

One assailant launched a hog-spear, which might have inflicted a serious, perhaps a mortal wound, but it only ripped open the left shoulder of Harrower's jacket, and merely scratched him, scarcely drawing blood.

Discharging the chambers of his revolver in quick succession, he shot down three, and making a dash through the rest, sword in hand, stabbed or rode down three more. Then pricking his horse with the point of the blade shortened in his hand, being without spurs, he galloped it at a speed which soon left his pursuers far behind. They followed him, however, uttering yells and maledictions as long as he was in sight; and to lure them from the direct path to the forest, he made a detour to the left, through some open fields and corn, even at the perilous risk of being seen by others, but on finding that he had fairly left his assailants some miles in the rear, he turned his horse's head again towards the forest of Soonput and rode more at leisure.

He was literally bathed in perspiration; his heart was beating wildly with rage and excitement, and it was not until he began to reload his pistol, that he found his arms and shoulders were stiff and sore by the blows he had received from clubs and matchlock butts, when he broke through the rabble. His horse had more than one wound inflicted by knives or hog-spears, and was bleeding freely.

This might prove a source of serious inconvenience and of danger too, for if the animal sank under its wounds, how was he to convey Lena; and then the odour of the blood, as it dropped upon the grass and leaves, might bring wild animals on their trail.

Harrower made his way through the forest not very successfully, however, as some time elapsed before his eye recognised certain trees and bushes with which he was familiar. Then he saw the ruins on the little knoll, and the dark outline of the two remaining arches; but there a fresh source of alarm awaited him.

Close by, almost within the arch or vault, where he had last seen Lena, waving her hand in adieu, there was a native -- a lean but muscular little Hindoo, clad only in a turban, and dhottee of red cotton, crouching on his knees, and gazing intently inward, with his back turned to Harrower.

This man was principally in shadow, being half under the horse-shoe-formed arch; but strong gleams of light were thrown on his red turban, the rings in his ears, and his brown, naked shoulders, as the sun rays shot through the trees.

After his recent experiences of natives, and in his present mood of mind, Harrower, on beholding this alarming and most unwelcome sight, and dreading he knew not what -- the very worst, at all events -- covered the Hindoo with his cocked pistol, having the decided intention of shooting him dead; but he as suddenly changed his mind, and feeling satisfied that, unless others were lurking near, the man could not escape, he quitted his saddle and quietly ascended the knoll, yet not so softly but that he was heard and seen by the Hindoo, who seemed in no way disconcerted by his approach.

As Harrower drew nearer, without hesitation or concealment, the man made motions indicative of silence, by waving one hand, while he placed the other on his mouth.

"What the deuce does the fellow mean?" muttered Harrower, who became still more astonished when the Hindoo drew from his girdle a little wooden pipe, of the most humble construction, and adjusting his long lean fingers on the holes, placed it to his lips, and began to play a low and monotonous air.

Intensely bewildered and alarmed by all this, Harrower came close to him, and under the ruined archway saw a sight that would have drawn a shout of terror from him, but that the Hindoo grasped his arm, and whispered energetically the single word, "Chup!" (silence).

There lay Lena Weston, on the poor couch of grass and leaves he had formed for her, sound asleep, overpowered by the heat of the day and the exhaustion she had recently undergone; and coiled close by her side, with its diabolical head erect, its eyes glaring like yellow topazes, and its crimson mouth open, over her very shoulder, was a snake -- a snake about a yard and a half long!

"Chup, sahib!" said the Hindoo, in a whisper; "it a Braminee cobra -- good snake! ver good -- bite -- kill -- dead, in one, two, tree hour," he added, counting on his fingers.

A cold thrill of terror passed over Harrower, and he felt as if the hair of his head bristled up. His first thought was his pistol; but again the Hindoo stayed the motion by seizing his hand.

After playing a few more notes of the low, monotonous air -- which, though Harrower knew it not, was mere professional quackery, or "business," as the man was by trade a snake-charmer -- he suddenly and quickly -- so quickly and adroitly that not even the reptile could elude him -- grasped it just under the jaw with the forefinger and thumb of his right hand, clenched like a vice round its throat, and then, with a whoop of delight, he brought it forth.

Lena started with a half-stifled shriek, not knowing what she had escaped, and chiefly alarmed by finding a native so near, while Harrower, incapable of speech, could only grasp her hands caressingly to reassure her, while looking at the little Hindoo snake-charmer, who, taking a pair of pinchers from his pocket, while the snake writhed, hissed, and lashed about in his unyielding grasp, proceeded with the utmost coolness and deliberation to extract the poisonous fangs; and after he had rendered it perfectly innocuous, he coiled it away in the basket that was slung at his back, and did so with as much sang-froid as a fisherman might with a remarkably fine eel.

As he put it in, another snake, which he had previously secured, thrust out his head, arching his neck with a swan-like grace, his hood spread out and his eyes flashing with fire and wickedness, till the adroit hand of the Hindoo forced him down, and closing the lid, left them to writhe and twist together.

Lena's eyes were dilated with astonishment at this scene, the details of which, for some time, she could in no way understand. The deep sleep she had just enjoyed -- that total unconsciousness and oblivion, which form the greatest restorative of wasted strength -- had refreshed her, yet she had been all unaware of the baleful breath that was mingling with her own.

The snake-charmer now proceeded to finish off his work, by another monotonous bar or two on his pipe; but suddenly Lena grew pale and sick, and almost sunk down when Harrower explained the nature of the peril from which she had been saved by the Hindoo, who now ran to the rivulet, filled his brass lotah with water, and -- as his caste was so low, that he feared no contamination from its being touched by her lips -- he made her drink from the vessel, saying -- 

"Eik, sahib -- poor Feringhee mem sahib ver bad -- sick -- ill; drink from lotah -- only water, but ver good. Nuddee flow to Jumna, Jumna flow to Holy Ganges -- drink, mem sahib -- get well, and dam Braminee cobra -- no harm you now."

The truth was that the man was simply an itinerant serpent-charmer (ranking in India pretty much as a rat-catcher does in England), and when first seen by Lena, crawling among the jungle grass, he had been in search of snakes for the purposes of his trade, and had arrived just in time to free her from the only peril of the wilderness she had yet encountered, before she had been aware of her danger, for had she made the slightest motion, the Brahminee cobra would certainly have bitten her to death.

The use of the pipe by the snake-charmers of India is all a pretence, and is solely done to deceive; nor did the Hindoo, while watching and intending to capture the serpent, resort to his musical instrument until he saw Harrower coming near, when he acted out the little scene, even at the risk of the sleeper's life, for every second was fraught with the terrible danger that might have ensued had she moved or wakened.

If ever a snake comes out of a hole or a basket, in apparent obedience to the sound of the charmer's pipe, it is always a tame, a trained and harmless one, placed therein by design. Harrower knew nothing of all this; he literally believed that the snake had been charmed in some fashion, and knew that the Hindoo had saved Lena at no small risk to himself, being at that moment quite unprovided with a hot iron to sear his flesh in case of being bitten.

In a burst of gratitude to the Hindoo, Jack nearly emptied the contents of his purse -- two gold mohurs and a few rupees -- into his hand; but seeing that the man's eyes were covetously fixed on the silver ornament of his belt-plate, which bore the number 32, the motto of the regiment, and a Saxon bugle-horn, he tore it off, and presented it to him. Lena also clasped one of her gold bracelets on his arm, after which he departed, with innumerable salaams; but as he retired through the forest, Harrower detected him taking many a furtive and backward glance at the ruins, as if noting their exact locality, and this excited alike his suspicion and dread.

"Ah, Lena," said he, pressing both her hands within his own, "such an escape we have had!"

"I, you mean, Harrower."

"I say we," he continued, "for if you had suffered -- "

"There would soon have been an end of all my sorrow -- "

"But what of mine -- and what would have become of me, poor devil?"

"You are very good and kind, Jack -- my poor friend; I never saw you look pale or tremble before. What did you think when you saw that horrid reptile so close to me?"

"Think?" said he, looking tenderly into her clear and beautiful eyes, which were beaming with something of real pleasure at his return. "I don't know what I thought."

"What did you feel, then?'

"Feel, Lena -- how can you ask me such questions?"

"I am sure I scarcely know, Jack, unless it be that the serpent's breath has bewildered me."

"Well, Lena, I felt as only those can feel who love as I do, and see the one they love in imminent and deadly peril!" said he, with a burst of uncontrollable emotion, which caused her eyes to fill with tears.

"I was in terror, Harrower, lest some evil had befallen you, the time of your absence was so much greater than we expected," she said, with a faltering voice.

"And you missed me?" he asked, tenderly.

"Whom have I now to miss but you -- what friend in the world, Jack? You were delayed -- "

"By Safiyah, who had come home from Delhi," replied Harrower, who, though smarting under the pain of many a bruise and blow, was nobly unwilling to add to her distress and alarm by telling of his recent narrow escape, and how he had been driven from the direct road by armed Hindoo peasantry.

"Safiyah -- my dear old ayah -- you saw her?"

"Yes -- for nearly an hour."

"And what news had she?"

"None, Lena," said Harrower, sadly, "none of those we love so much. Of their fate or flight she is as ignorant as we ourselves are; she could only tell me that the rebels grow in strength and number every hour; that everywhere the telegraph wires had been destroyed, and that Nana Sahib is to be King of the Mahrattas, so other mutinies and revolts must have taken place, thus further precluding our slender chances of ultimate safety and escape. Would to Heaven we were nearer the Ganges, or some hundred miles lower down the provinces!"

After her tears had flowed in silence for some time, she said with a shudder -- 

"I shall be afraid to close my eyes, lest some other horrible reptile come near me again."

"You forget that while you sleep, I watch."

"True -- true; I thank you, dear friend."

Jack sighed, and said:

"But we must now prepare to leave this, Lena."

"We may change for the worse -- but why?"

"Now that a native, though apparently a friendly one, has discovered our lurking place, we have no alternative but to seek another."

"Ah, true -- we can trust implicitly none of these people."

"Through hate, or fear, or greed -- or the mere lust of wanton cruelty -- they are sure to betray us in the end, now; and I did not like the backward glances of that Hindoo, as he went off with his basket of snakes, taking notes apparently of the locality."

"Then it must be flight again, Harrower?"

"Yes -- I would that we had the souls of Arabs, Lena."

"Why?"

"We should then learn naturally to love this wandering and vagabond life -- for we are becoming veritable gipsies."

"Flight again," said she, musing; "but to where?"

"Wherever kind Heaven directs us -- I cannot say at present -- yet stay," he exclaimed, after a moment's thought; "I have it!"

"Have what, Harrower?" she asked, anxiously.

"A plan for our procedure -- fool that I was not to think of it long before!"

"And this plan -- oh, quick, Jack -- what is it?"

"We are within less than fifty miles of Kurnaul, a military garrison, a postal and telegraph station. Let us travel towards it by night, concealing ourselves by day, and while keeping the canal of Ali Merdan as our guide, we cannot fail to reach it."

"Then we may learn something of papa -- or Polly -- or Kate, for many fled to Kurnaul from Delhi! To Heaven's protection, and your kind guidance, I commit myself, Harrower."

"And so this night, we shall set out for Kurnaul," said he, cheerfully.

CHAPTER XXI.

A FAITHFUL OLD SOUBADAR.

Harroweb found a species of wild nettle, the leaf of which acted as a styptic for the wounds of the horse; and then remounting Lena, when the evening was a little further advanced, he set forth in search of the road to Kurnaul, steering their way through the wild and untrodden forest to the westward, in the hope of coming ere long, upon the canal of Ali Merdan Khan, which goes sixty miles beyond the place of their destination, even into the valley of Kardeh-deen, once a fertile and populous district, but a wild and untrodden jungle now; and from the evening of their quitting the ruin in the forest, terror, toil, and continued flight from place to place, with many harassing and exciting incidents, followed each other with a rapidity almost bewildering, for almost everywhere those Europeans, who, like themselves, became unhappily isolated, were hunted like beasts of prey, till death by the sword, or by fever, put an end to their miseries.

They had barely left the ruin a quarter of a mile behind, when a crowd of armed natives, in their scanty dresses of scarlet or white cotton, could be seen by the gleams of moonlight that shot through the foliage, rushing towards it from two points, as if by a preconcerted plan.

Something like an oath escaped Harrower, who added -- 

"So you see that my suspicions have proved just, Lena?"

"That the snake charmer would have us betrayed to death if he could?"

"The scoundrel -- yes! However, we have anticipated him; but by a few minutes only."

"Yet Heaven be blessed for its kind inspiration, that enabled us to do so, Jack!" exclaimed Lena, with fervour.

A faint cry then escaped her, as a bullet fired at random, whistled through the branches of the trees overhead.

"Matchlock men, too!" muttered Harrower, whose practised ear knew the report of the firearm; "so these are doubtless the rascals I have met before."

Struggling on through the old primeval forest, impeded sorely, and at times compelled to halt altogether by the rank luxuriance of the undergrowth, by fallen trees, rocks, watercourses, and other obstructions, it was nearly midnight before Harrower, who was guiding his companion by her horse's bridle, began to have some hope of their ever getting out of the woody wilderness of Soonput.

The trees became thinner, or further apart, and the wood more open; the long and feathery jungle grass disappeared, and the flat landscape that stretched away towards Jheend was visible in all its greenness and fertility, by the clear and beautiful moonlight.

A perfect silence reigned everywhere, and Harrower still leading the horse, continued to press on, through fields of growing maize, in hope to strike upon the road by the canal of Ali Merdan Khan, for that alone could be their guide to Kurnaul.

To travel by night, and to seek concealment by day, was now their plan; and absorbed each in sad and anxious thoughts, they proceeded without conversing, and as the chill dewy hours of the early morning drew on, Lena trembled and shivered, though Jack's care had closely muffled her in the old artillery cloak.

A line of wooden pegs, that extended through the fields at equal distances apart, served to indicate the intended line of railway from Delhi, through Jheend; but all such operations were at an end now, and surveyors and engineers had betaken them to the rifle and revolver; but Harrower now knew that they must soon reach the famous canal, by his recollection of a map he had seen in the Flagstaff Tower.

Now fields of thick and high sugar-cane rose in front to baffle and bewilder, for no path could be found through them; and to add to the troubles of the fugitives, the moon was waning fast, and amid gathering clouds, too.

Morning was at hand, for already the Indian falcon -- the garadu -- or bird of Vishnu, was uttering its strange note of "chree-chree!" as it flitted from spray to spray.

Loth to alarm his delicate companion, Harrower expressed neither doubt nor fear, but steadily proceeded north-westward, after finding a narrow, but well-beaten path. The morning was gloomy, but a lurid and increasing streak of light beyond the tree-tops of the forest they had left, indicated that ere long, with all its suddenness and tropical rapidity, the sun of another day would be mounting skyward; and now the barking and howling of pariah dogs caused Harrower to feel greatly alarmed, lest they were drawing near a camp or other habitation; and his fears had scarcely been suggested, ere they were confirmed, by finding that the road was suddenly closed by an arched gate, on each side of which ran a long extent of stone wall, loopholed in many places for musketry.

In short, they were at the entrance of a Hindoo village, one of those communities of the ryots or husbandmen, who very seldom live in an isolated farm like that of Khoda Bux, but who associate together in one place, surrounded by a wall for the protection of themselves and their cattle; and not unfrequently under the guns of a little citadel or fort, belonging to some wealthy aga or zemindar.

In each of those villages is a chief-man who is regarded alike as the mayor and father of the community, as the regulator of its affairs and the administrator of justice, his simple court being held under a large tree, which usually grows without the gate.

Harrower was now very much embarrassed indeed! He knew not which way to turn; to retire was nearly as perilous as to advance, for around, the country was everywhere open; day was breaking fast, already the village was astir; he could hear voices within the walls, and he feared their fate would soon be sealed!

Vague ideas of boldly seeking the chief-man of the village and demanding protection, occurred to him; but how many had sought, while none found succour at the hands of old Mohammed of Delhi and his cruel sons?

He was about to turn the horse's head and seek concealment, however temporary, among the fields, when the sound of voices in their rear was heard, and a noisy and laughing crowd could be seen approaching -- too evidently by the gleam of their weapons, and the varied colour of their dresses, the same tumultuary rabble which had attacked him on the road, and had been tracking them through the forest -- and such they eventually proved to be.

"In the village we may find protection, Lena, but here on the road we shall surely perish without aid or mercy."

He struck the gate vigorously with the butt-end of a pistol, summoning the durwan to open, and almost immediately it swung back, shewing a picturesque vista of the little street of houses and gardens beyond. All the inhabitants were beginning their daily avocations. Already the village priest was repairing to the Temple and Tank to perform, as the sun rose, the Sandivane or worship of Brahma the Supreme; and already the lively and active Hindoo labourers were issuing forth to go afield with spade and hoe, while the women with jars and ghurrahs clustered about the wells for water or were proceeding to the Tank to bathe, to decorate their long, black, wavy hair, and paint their eyelashes, before fanning the four-armed statue of the god in the temple, which had been built there, by a wealthy Brahmin, to testify his remorse for having once loved a Pariah girl; but now the shout and rumour of "eik sahib logue!" (a white gentleman) ran like wildfire up the street, and there quickly gathered a crowd round Harrower, before whose tall figure, stern eyes and bearded visage (for a formidable hirsute appendage now covered half his face) they all gave way, when he warned them back with a wave of his revolver-pistol.

He demanded firmly to be led before the headman of the village; and felt black despair gathering in his heart, and his tongue cleaving to the roof of his mouth, when he was answered only by shouts and mockery, and by the brandishing of spades and hoes. For himself, he felt that he might die content, after he had expended his last shot among these people. Three lives at least, should answer for his own; but after he had perished, there was Lena.

He dared not trust himself to look at her!

The pressure and tumult were increasing, and he knew that a hostile rabble, enraged by disappointment, now on the highway, would ere long, join their fury with those in the street of the village.

They coarsely mocked Lena in particular, using epithets in Oordoo with which she, luckily, was utterly unacquainted. Then decayed melons, cocoa-nut shells, even stones, began to whistle about her; but the copper coloured rabble fled back with howls of elvish spite and fear, when Harrower levelled his pistol at them, for the natives had a wholesome dread of a revolver, which they generally conceived to be a species of magic pistol, that without being reloaded, might be fired for ever. Yet he was loth to discharge one bullet, lest by doing so, he might anticipate the dreaded consummation.

But now when matters had almost reached their gloomiest crisis, a tall and fine-looking old Brahmin, with a heavy white moustache, features full of dignity, and clad in the usual scanty dress of the country, but wearing a white solar-topee, stepped forward, interposing between the two fugitives and the people.

"Peace, all of you !" he cried, in Hindostanee, and with a loud and authoritative voice, "Is it not written in the books of our faith, that fire is the superior of the Brahmin; the Brahmin is the superior of all the tribes of India, even as the husband is the superior of the wife; and that the stranger within your gates is, for the time, lord and superior of all?"

"I thank you, sir," said Harrower, "for this succour -- from my heart I thank you, for the sake of this poor lady whom I have to protect -- and in the name of the one God who created us all, Indian and European alike!"

"Sahib, from whence have you come?" asked the Brahmin, suddenly speaking in good English.

"From Delhi."

"Ah -- there has been much wicked work there, as well as elsewhere. Woe and ruin will close again upon Shahjehanabad, as they have often done before! And to where were you proceeding?"

"To Kurnaul."

"You cannot know, sahib, that yesterday the native troops in Kurnaul revolted, slaughtering their officers as they sat at the mess-table; and every European who failed to escape, and that even they are now upon the march for Delhi, to join Mohammed Bahadoor Shah and his two sons."

"Even now on the march, say you?"

"Yes -- and every hour we expect them here!"

"Oh, Lena," exclaimed Harrower; "Fate has overtaken us at last!"

"Take courage, Jack -- all may not be over with us, yet, and perhaps this good man may assist us -- he looks kind," she added, while her tears fell fast.

"You are a plucky girl, Lena, and have borne up bravely -- nobly -- but -- " Harrower paused, and the expression of terrible anxiety which appeared in his face, moved the old Brahmin with genuine compassion, and while his dark and glittering eyes filled with tears, he spoke again.

"Fear not, sir," said he, drawing himself up to his full height, and giving Harrower a very orthodox military salute, "for I am both able and willing to protect you."

"You have belonged to the Honourable Company's Service?" exclaimed Harrower, eagerly.

"Yes, sir, for five and forty years -- see," he added, opening the collar of his dress, and revealing the two rows of gold beads -- the honoured and valued badge of his rank as a native officer. "I am Bhowanee Lall, soubadar-major of the 15th Native Infantry, Doo-ka-Pultan. When I led the regiment to the assault of Bhurtpore, after nearly all our European officers had fallen, killed or wounded, I could not foresee the events of this disastrous time. I have fought in all the great battles of the Company -- yes, sahib!" continued the old Brahmin, with growing pride and grief, "in Afghanistan, at Ghuznee, Ferozeshah, Sobraon, and everywhere else; and have eaten its salt with gratitude: but would to Brahma that I had been shot in battle under the colours of the 15th, rather than have lived to be degraded as I am to-day; but it was my kismet -- my destiny!"

"Degraded -- by a court martial?"

"No, sahib," replied the Brahmin, proudly and bitterly; "I have sat on many a court-martial, but never was before one!"

"But you said degraded."

"Yes; only a short time since, my regiment -- my old beloved Doo-ka-Pultan, mutinied at Nusserabad (a station far distant from this, in a wild and bleak country), when they heard of the massacre of the white people, at Meerut. By my own exertions and influence, I saved all the officers, who were permitted to go free with their lives and swords; then the whole corps, with the 30th, Macdoon-ka-Pultan, seized the field-pieces, plundered the bungalows, burned the pretty cantonments, and though thrice charged by the 1st Bombay Lancers, set off for Delhi, taking me with them, threatening to blow me from the mouth of a gun if I refused. For a time I dissembled, and marched at their head, but being resolved to remain true to my salt, I deserted from them in the night; and after five and forty years of faithful service, and being six times wounded in action, I am now a very pariah, a beggar on the bounty of my kindred -- I who was soubadarmajor of our once glorious 15th Native Infantry!"

The old man wept, and seemed bowed down by grief as he spoke. The service, the pride, the glory and the sustenance of his life had all passed away from him at once.

"If I ever survive to reach Calcutta, on my honour as an officer, your claims shall be remembered," said Harrower; "take courage, soubadar."

"Then you will protect us, good sir?" implored Lena, gathering hope from this interview.

"He has already promised us that he will do so, Lena," said Harrower, looking anxiously at the crowd; "he told us that he was both able and willing."

"My brother Kunoujee Lall is the zemindar of the village and of all the adjacent district, and he will protect you, sahib, and the lady -- your wife -- for my sake, if not for your own," said the old soubadar, with another military salute; and then giving a stern glance at the crowd, which fell back, just as a multitude of men (on whose weapons of various kinds, tulwars, matchlocks, sabres, and hogspears, the morning sun shone brightly) came tumultuously into the village, through the arched gate at the lower end of the street.

"This way, sahib -- we have little time to lose," said the Soubadar Bhowanee Lall, leading them towards a strongly fortified gate, in an archway, over which two brass cannon were peering.

It was opened; they passed through, and when it was shut, Harrower and his companion found themselves within the outer barrier or precincts of the house of the zemindar, a fortified dwelling mounted with cannon and mortars, and begirt by two strong walls, a palisade, and ditch.

"While here, sahib, you are safe, and the lady, too," said the Brahmin, with a smile.

Harrower gave Lena a glance that expressed how full his heart was of gratitude, and she could only bow her head sadly, as she muttered a few words of prayer, for the gate had barely been closed and secured by a massive transverse bar, when yells and disorderly cries of rage and disappointment were heard without, as the mob, like a human surge, came dashing themselves against it.

Hammer looked round with uneasiness, but the old soubadar-major pointed, with a grim smile, to the two brass nine-pounders on the platform beside the gate, and once more gave his grave military salute, as he led them up the eminence on which the mansion stood.

"Fear not, sahib," said he; "Kunoujee Lall will protect you, for the sake of those whose salt his brother has eaten for five and forty years."

The residence of Kunoujee Lall was a handsome Anglo-Indian villa, which had probably been built by some commandant or collector, after the battle of Assaye. It stood, as stated, within the quadruple defences of ditch, stockade, and two walls, which, from their solidity and antiquity, must have formed the outer ballium of the castle of some native prince or chief, in the old fighting times of India, when dynasties and revolutions succeeded each other with such frightful rapidity, and when Hindoo, Patan, Mogul, Mahratta, the Sikh, and lastly the Briton, with the sword in one hand, and a ledger in the other, ruled the land in turn.

CHAPTER XXII.

IN THE HOUSE OP THE ZEMINDAK.

The old soubadar-major knew well that every boy ensign fresh from Sandhurst, and every raw cadet just out from Addiscombe, had been wont to stigmatise the natives of India generally, and without exception -- from the king of Delhi down to the lowest coolie, and from the purest Brahmin down to the veriest pariah whom the statutes of Menou ordained to be for ever a slave or outcast -- under the unpleasant denomination of "niggers," with the usual English adjective prefixed, to ram the epithet home; but he also knew the value of a genuine British officer, and could appreciate the courage, the courtesy and the education of a thorough English gentleman, for luckily in the service, "snobs" are exceptional, and no army in the world can shew a finer body of officers than our own.

Forty-five years' service, in cities, cantonments and barracks, had taught him too, a proper sense of the high position and true character of a Christian woman -- more than all, of an English lady, and Bhowanee Lall knew that the Queen upon the throne could only be a lady too, and nothing more; thus he treated Lena with a respect and tenderness, that went far to reassure her, and to cheer her drooping spirits.

"I have lived to see wondrous changes, madam," said he with another profound military salute, and a soft smile on his fine old face; "I am an Indian veteran, who can remember a very different state of things in the upper provinces, and when batta and tentage were really things worth counting on. In the days when I served under Lord Combermere, at the siege of Bhurtpore, we could not as now travel by carriage-dawk, by palkee-gharrie, or by the accommodation boats. It was all marching from station to station, for months, hundreds of miles up country, and pitching our tents, wherever the dewy night or the hot noon found us, every fifteen miles or so; and now when your great people are just introducing the railroad and electric telegraph, those sons of burnt fathers, the mutineers, have brought about the ruin of all things; but here is the mansion of my brother, Kunoujee Lall, and here he comes in person to welcome you."

They had been ascending the green scarped knoll on which the house stood, and now at the door, under the broad and shady verandah, which stood on rustic pillars covered with beautiful scarlet and blue creepers, there appeared a Brahmin, who, though he had not the stiff, erect and military bearing of the soubadar, in form, face and feature, even to the trim of the moustache, was his very counterpart.

"Salaam Sahib -- and to you Mem Sahib," said he, making the usual gesture of respect with both his hands and bowing low.

"Salaam to you, Kunoujee Lall," said Harrower, whose uniform and attire generally, presented now, the most wretched appearance; "your brother, the most true and worthy soubadarmajor of the 15th Native Infantry, has, in your name, promised us protection."

"And you shall have it, I promise you, on the faith of our fathers," he replied, but with difficulty, as his mouth was half full of betel leaf and chunam, a vile, but favourite "quid" of the Hindoos.

Just as Harrower lifted Lena from her saddle, and the wife and daughters of Kunoujee Lall conducted her kindly into the house, a dreadful tumult, and fierce cries again rang at the outer gate, which was violently assailed by the blows of stones and weapons.

"This must be stopped," said the soubadarmajor, in whose black eyes an angry light began to sparkle.

"Brother, you must speak to the people," said the zemindar, "for you are made of sterner stuff than I, Bhowanee."

"By the soul of Brahma, I shall make these two nine pounders talk to them!" said the old soubadar; "turn out your people with their matchlocks, Kunoujee, and I shall soon clear the village at the point of the bayonet."

Harrower turned back with the soubadar, towards the gate, and through a loophole could see outside, the crowd from whose tender mercies he and his weary companion had so narrowly escaped.

They were the same variously armed peasantry who had assailed him on leaving the house of Khoda Bux, and who had tracked out their hiding-place in the forest; and to them were now added the villagers, who ominously brandished their agricultural implements. At the head of the whole, and making themselves remarkably active, were the serpent charmer and a strange figure in a loose blue, undress uniform, which was a world too wide for his lean and shrunken body.'

"Ferukh Pandy -- my rascally valet, by all that's wonderful," exclaimed Harrower, and wearing some of my old uniform too.

He had on a pair of the gilt-shoulder-scales, then worn by the line, and carried a double-barrelled rifle. At his neck, hung a string of those rough brown berries, or beads, usually worn by dervishes, fakirs, and the peasantry.

In the dark faces of all these men, there was an expression of cruel and ferocious malignity, which filled Harrower's heart with rage and bitterness, for he felt how close -- how terribly close -- death had been to Lena and himself; and that, but for the most timely intervention of the friendly soubadar-major, a dreadful scene would have been enacted in that village street, and that they must both have perished miserably, as many others were perishing all over Bengal.

"Mar dalo Feringhees -- mar dalo ghora logue!" (kill the Europeans -- kill the white people), cried Ferukh Pandy, brandishing his rifle, which had been Jack's favourite weapon; "the king of Delhi will give us five hundred rupees for each of their heads."

In virtue of his close relationship to the mutineer Mungal Pandy, the Barrackpore assassin, this fellow seemed to enjoy a kind of authority over the others. Harrower levelled his pistol through a loophole, and would certainly have terminated the career of his enterprising valet, had not the soubadar arrested his hand.

"Save your powder, sahib, for I shall speak to them," said he; "and then, if they do not disperse in five minutes, I shall clear the street with those two nine pounders, for we must get rid of them before the troops from Kurnaul come within sound of the firing."

This threat Bhowanee Lall (whose appearance was greeted by a yell to which perfect silence succeeded) repeated to the rabble from the summit of the wall; then Ferukh Pandy, who seemed resolutely bent on mischief, resumed his cries of -- 

"Mar dalo Feringhees! strike now -- one day is worth two to-morrows. Death to all the white Kaffirs!"

"You spoke of getting out your brother's people," said Harrower, who was becoming impatient.

"Yes, sahib; but -- "

"But what -- you cannot trust them?" he asked, with alarm.

"Nay, they are true as steel to us, and I shall certainly muster them."

"Do so, by all means," said Harrower, who was intently anxious to come within arm's length of Ferukh Pandy; "I should like to join them in charging that cowardly rabble, who would hunt to a merciless death two defenceless strangers, and one of them a woman -- a delicate English girl!"

"But, sahib, if I bring out our people, who are only some twenty or so, yet all resolute men, I alone shall lead them forth."

"You, of course, soubadar-major, but with me by your side."

"I say nay again, for being the mark of every missile, bullet, and weapon, you would be certain to lose your life, and then what would become of the poor lady?"

"True -- true," replied Harrower, biting his moustache with vexation.

"Run back those guns and load each with a bag of musket balls," said Bhowanee Lall, in Hindostanee, to some well-armed natives, who were the servants or retainers of his brother.

Slowly and laboriously, with ropes and lever bars, they rolled back the long unused guns from the embrasures; they were evidently cannon as old as the days of Scindiah and Assayc, and unpleasant ideas of honeycombing and exploding occurred to Harrower, they looked so rusty and time-worn; but luckily there was no occasion to test their strength, for the hint their handling afforded was sufficient, and in less than a minute the street of the village was cleared from end to end. The soubadar-major laughed heartily as he saw the fugitives tumbling over each other in their mad terror to escape.

"At last they are gone!" said Harrower.

"I have still two great fears for you, sahib," said Bhowanee Lall; "one is, if the Kurnaul mutineers come here soon, for we could never withstand them; the other, that if news of your being in our keeping go to Delhi, Mirza Abubeker, general of the cavalry, who is unwearying in his energies for the destruction of your people, may send a force hither to demand you at my brother's hands."

Those surmises rather clouded the satisfaction which Harrower felt in the temporary safety afforded by the dwelling of the zemindar; and, as if to echo the very thoughts of Bhowanee Lall, the sound of drums came from a distance.

"Hark!" said he, changing colour, "the Kurnaul mutineers!"

They did not, however, come near the village, but passed it on the Paniput road, and Harrower through a telescope could see their arms shining in the sun above the fields of yellowing grain, and the waving of their standards, which were their ordinary regimental colours -- the Queen's and the Union Jack. Oddly enough, they did not relinquish these, as they deemed them consecrated and holy, having, as usual, on presentation, been marched into the sacred Ganges. Under their own native officers they were proceeding in excellent order along the highway, accompanied by a host of camp followers, women in covered waggons, and elephants laden with ammunition and spoil, en route for Delhi, the focus of the insurrection.

"There they go, and may the goddess of Destruction follow them!" said Bhowanee Lall, grinding his teeth; "from those fellows, at least, you are safe, sahib."

"Welcome!" exclaimed Kunoujee Lall, as they entered the drawing-room of the house, holding out his hands, which Harrower shook heartily; "I have to congratulate you on a double escape."

"But how is this, sahib?" asked Harrower, surprised by the extreme frankness of the Hindoo; "do you not lose caste by touching me?"

"Yes, for the time," replied the old Brahmin, half closing his eyes, with a smile that became a leer.

"Well, you do me a singular honour."

"Not at all, sahib; I shall purify myself."

"How?"

"Simply by prayer and bathing to-morrow."

"A small matter, certainly," said the soubadar-major, laughing, "as my brother and I bathe in the Tank every morning, as regularly as the sun shines."

The cunning smile and the jesting tone of the zemindar when speaking of his caste impressed Harrower unpleasantly, for outwardly the elder Lall was a very devout man, and interlarded his conversation with many pious speeches and scraps of prayer, thus Jack feared that he was a hypocrite and not to be trusted.

Kunoujee Lall was one of the old zemindars, or lords of the soil, in Bengal, who held certain districts for which a stipulated sum was paid yearly to the Mogul sovereigns; and this system was not altered by the British Government, which, however, obliged these proprietors to give a bond that fixed their rents at a certain annual value, to prevent them from oppressing by arbitrary exactions the ryots, or humbler tillers of he land; but in consequence of being unable to fulfil their contract, many of their estates were seized and sold, thus the majority of the old semindaries had passed away for ever, while still that of Kunoujee Lall remained unchanged, and he lived secluded among his people in his fortified dwelling, a species of Hindoo gentleman of the old school.

His house was furnished with handsome European furniture, English engravings, gilt French clocks, and elegant bijouterie, which suggested to Lena pleasant ideas of comfort and of home. On the first night of their residence with him, the whole house and its verandahs were lighted up with brilliant lamps and coloured paper or silk lanterns, and a supper was prepared for them specially, of such viands as it was supposed the Feringhees preferred, with a dessert of fruit, including the delicious mangoes of Mazagong preserved in sugar, a rarity so famous, that in the days of Shah Jehan, he used to have mounted couriers stationed between Delhi and the Mahratta coast, to secure the first mangoes of the season.

When this repast was over, a young Hindoo played some intensely monotonous airs on the vina, a kind of mandolin of wires stretched on a board with a hollow gourd at each end, while another beat time on a tom-tom, or Indian drum, and a group of young girls, their black hair beautifully decorated with sprays of jasmine, and their lithe forms covered with jewels, having rings in their ears, on their fingers and toes, and bracelets and anklets of gold filigree work, with bells of the same precious metal at their elbows and feet, performed a dance of wonderful grace and beauty, combined with the most perfect modesty; but Lena Weston, overcome by all she had undergone, and a dread of what she had yet to undergo, was past being roused or amused, so she looked sadly and wearily on, like one in a waking dream, while Jack, an inveterate smoker, felt soothed, almost happy, by a cigar, which Bhowanee Lall gave him, and which was almost the first "weed" he had enjoyed since that terrible day in the Flagstaff Tower, and the flight on the field-pieces for Meerut.

CHAPTER XXIII.

NOUR MAHAL.

It would appear, by what Harrower learned from the soubadar major, Bhowanee Lall, that the ruin with the two quaint arches, which had afforded a shelter to Lena and himself in the forest of Soonput, was the remnant neither of a mosque or a mansion; nor a relic of the Bheels, who have the credit of building all old ruins in India, (just as the Picts have in Scotland), or of Jan ben Jan, who governed the world long before Adam came, a fact of which the Europeans are yet in ignorance; but it was the fragment of a once magnificent tomb, connected with the romantic story of one of the most beautiful and remarkable women who ever figured in the stirring and changing history of India -- Nour Jehan, "the Light of the World," better known in many a song and tale of fiction by her softer and more loving name, Nour Mahal, "the Light of the Harem" -- (the same sobriquet which, in vanity or jest, or in his pride of having a toy so new and beautiful, Mirza Abubeker had bestowed upon his poor little English captive, Polly Weston) -- the same Nour Mahal whom Moore mentions in the poem of "Lalla Rookh."

It was a story which presented a strange example of the lack of parental affection -- of covetousness and avarice justly punished, and of a life remarkable for its vicissitudes and splendour, its sorrows and joys.

Shortly before the Christian year 1600, when the Emperor Selim, on succeeding to the throne of Delhi, assumed the vain-glorious title of Jehanghir, or "Conqueror of the World," there came to the city, with a weary and dusty caravan of mules and camels, a Persian lord, named Ali Khan, who had once owned vast estates on the plains of Khoi, the most fertile district of Persia; but who, by his extravagances, had so wasted his wealth, that he had little more than a tomaun in his pocket when he and his only child, a little daughter, entered the splendid capital of the Moguls.

A rich merchant of the caravan, who traded in shawls of embroidered silk, China crapes, laventincs and velvets, taking pity upon the impoverished lord, and being charmed by the beauty of his little daughter, procured for him a post in the palace of the old Emperor Acbar. There the girl soon attracted the notice of the chief ladies of the zenana, by her marvellous beauty of face and form, by her powers of song, and the skill with which she could compose extempore verses; so they unanimously named her Nour Mahal -- the Light of the Harem.

She did more than charm them; she completely fascinated the young Prince Selim, who, as a mere boy, inhabited as yet the zenana; but on this affection being discovered, old Acbar ordered her to be immediately removed.

Her father had risen high in the service of Acbar, but being again overwhelmed by debts on one hand, and having been promised the vice-royalty of Bengal on the other, he made no scruple in complying, and would probably, had he been required to do so, have thrown the girl, without remorse, into the Jumna. He separated the little girl from her boy lover, and to raise money for his present exigencies, to repair his past extravagance, and that he might with all due honour and splendour take possession of his vice-royalty, he resolved to sell his daughter to the highest bidder, for some Persian zenana.

Just about the time he came to this barbarous conclusion, a caravan arrived in Delhi to purchase beautiful girls, as wives for certain great lords of Ispahan, so the avaricious Ali brought the slave-merchants to his house, which was in Chandney Choke, just opposite the caravanserai built by the Begum Saib, that they might see his daughter, Nour Mahal, and fix upon her price.

The Persian girl was in all the bloom of her early beauty; her hair glittered like gold or carded silk in the sunshine; her features had the most faultless delicacy and dove-like softness of expression, with a sadness over them that was very winning, for she found her father cold and heartless, and she pined for the handsome boy Selim, whom she had learned to love, and from whom she was so hopelessly separated.

The merchants, who by profession and experience were good judges of beauty, were charmed by her appearance, and they sought in vain for faults, or even the slightest blemish, and offered a princely sum to Ali Khan. This served but still further to excite his avarice, and he rose in his demands; so the merchants, who for this species of goods had carte-blanche from Shere Afgan, one of the richest men in Persia, doubled their offer, and then trebled it, so the father surrendered to them at last his lovely daughter, and the deed or document of transmission was duly signed and sealed, before the nearest kotwal, or magistrate.

Round her slender throat they clasped a necklace of those wonderful turquoises, which are found in the mountains of Nishapour, in Khorassan, the Land of the Sun, and which are supposed to possess the magic power of bringing health and fortune to the wearer.

The huge bags of tomauns were handed to Ali Khan, and the weeping child, for she was little more, was taken away. Unmoved by her tears, and deaf to her entreaties, avarice and vanity seemed to have sealed up the heart of Ali as in an impenetrable case. The caravan set forth at once, for the pockets of the merchants were empty, and Nour Mahal was deemed a sufficient prize; so Selim, from the walls of the zenana, saw it issue from the city, without knowing who was seated in the covered palanquin, surrounded by an armed escort; she was weeping unseen behind the close-drawn curtains, lonely, so sad in spirit, and already impaired in health, that the hitherto unparalleled turquoises were, by their alleged sympathy with the wearer, quite faded and pale in colour, to the great terror of her purchasers, who feared that if she died in their hands, and before being delivered to Shere Afgan, they would lose every tomaun!

"I have a wonderful talent for spending," thought Ali Khan, as he sat a la turque on a rich carpet, and propped against a pile of soft cushions, smoking a pipe six feet long, and contemplating his heap of treasure with singular complacency; "even the mines of Golconda, where the diamonds lie scattered on the surface of the earth, would make little difference to me, for I should be sure to come to the end of them in time. When all this money is gone, I may miss the voice of my little Nour Mahal, and even sorrow for her, perhaps. Allah be praised for his mercies! but a daughter so good and so gifted is as good as a gold mine to her poor old father."

But years elapsed before retributive sorrow or poverty came to Ali Khan. Mounted on a milk white elephant, covered with trappings of gold and precious stones, and attended by a great body of Mohammedan and Mahratta warriors, clad in shirts of shining mail, and all riding beautiful horses, he departed from Delhi (with four Nautch girls seated in his howdah to fan him), and feeling only that now, without shame of poverty, he might take possession of his vice-royalty, and freely boast of his descent from Rustam, the Hercules of Persian tradition.

But the treasure so won, brought only temporary happiness to the arid heart of Ali Khan; he was soon plunged in debt and difficulties, and to support his extravagance, had committed various outrages and peculations, so that by the time the great Acbar died, and Selim ascended the throne of Delhi, the viceroy had won the disfavour of all.

The prince had been married by his father's order, but as he had never forgotten the first love of his boyhood, the bright and happy girl of the zenana, and was allowed to have four wives if he pleased, he ordered Ali Khan, on peril of his head, "to lure Shere Afgan to some solitary place, to the end, that Nour Mahal might easily be carried off in his absence."

Unscrupulous still, and desperate in his money matters, Ali Khan sent a messenger to Shere Afgan, appointing to meet him at a certain place in the forest of Soonput; but spies had already informed the luckless husband of the scheme that was on the tapis, and of the future honour that was intended for the slave girl, whom he had purchased with so much treasure, and married.

At first he thought of putting his beloved Nour Mahal to death, rather than that another should possess her; but he thrust aside the cruel idea, replaced his dagger quietly in its sheath, and rode forward to keep his appointment with the viceroy, who came attended by all his Mahratta guards, in their shirts of mail, with shields and spears, and they made a glittering show, as they drew up at the trysting place, the knoll overshadowed by a magnificent banian tree.

"I have come unattended, as you see, Ali Khan," said his son-in-law, suspiciously, "while you have all your guards about you. Swear to me that you mean no treachery in all this!"

"I swear to you by the holy grave!" replied the unscrupulous Ali, who would have sworn by anything to serve himself.

Now, to swear thus, by the tomb of the Shah Besade, at Casbin, is still one of the most sacred oaths of the Persians; but the Shere Afgan was not satisfied, his mind was full of doubt, and when he saw the Mahratta guards encirling the knoll on which the meeting took place, he drew his dagger and stabbed Ali Khan in the breast. Ali fell, with a wild cry of terror and agony, on which his guards at once cut Shere Afgan to pieces with their scymitars. Then believing that the viceroy was also dead, they stripped the bodies of all their ornaments, jewels, and rich clothing, and left them to be devoured by the wild animals of the forest.

After this, a great Omrah of Delhi immediately succeeded to the vice-royalty of Bengal.

The death of Shere Afgan had been simply the result of his rashness, and not the contrivance of Sclim, who instantly sent back the guards for the bodies, or what might remain of them. That of the Shere Afgan was found next day, untouched by jackals, pariah dogs or ravens, but of the body of Ali Khan, not a vestige remained!

So now Nour Mahal became chief Sultana, Queen, and Empress of Delhi, and no woman ever enjoyed so high an influence, or such consideration, at any Oriental court. More than ever did she excel in the art of making beautiful verses; and it is to her, that the Indians ascribe the invention of attar of roses, and other sweet perfumes.

The gardens of Delhi were her delight, and there yet remain the white marble fountains, wherein she was wont daily to feed the gold and silver fish; but in the lovely Vale of Cashmere was always her favourite residence, away from the splendour and ponderous pageantry of state, and where, as the bard has it, she made the wilderness a Heaven: -- 

"So felt" the magnificent son of Acbar,
When from power and pomp and the trophies of war,
He flew to that valley, forgetting them all,
With the light of the harem, his young Nour Mahal."

The splendour of Selim's court was increased and refined by her taste. She introduced female dresses of a style much more graceful and becoming than any that had been in use before her time; and one of the first acts of her new career, was to erect a magnificent tomb over the grave of her first husband, Shere Afgan, in the forest of Soonput.

The wonderful necklace of Khorassan had resumed all its pristine brilliance now, and the life of Nour Mahal glided on, in perfect happiness. She was often a mother, and lived to toy with her grandchildren in the gardens of Delhi.

About the time when to rescue Selim she so narrowly escaped death in the great battle of Allahabad, when the elephant on which she was seated, was made the centre of attack by the furious Rajpoots, who showered balls, rockets, and arrows till all her guards were destroyed, when the elephant, wounded to madness, sprang into the river, was carried down by the fierce current, and so narrowly escaped drowning; and when shrieking with terror, she found her gilded howdah stained with the blood of a grandchild, that was nestling in her bosom, till an arrow struck it -- in that terrible time, we say, when she was on the verge of a miserable death, the ponderous animal was guided skilfully ashore by an old man, a pariah, a kindalah of the most wretched and squalid appearance, whom she ordered to be brought before her, that he might receive all the gratitude and reward a loving wife and mother could offer, with her thanks and prayers.

The aged pariah bore all the marks of having endured the utmost famine and fatigue; he bore also the terrible badge of slavery, for by the scar on his left ankle, he had evidently worn a fetter; yet withal, his appearance was venerable and not unpleasing.

"O, Mahmoud resoul Allah!" he exclaimed, with one of those noisy bursts of religious fervour, that among Christians would be deemed a sign either of madness or hypocrisy, but which in the Oriental is often perfectly genuine; "though as we are told two angels are deputed to take account of a man's behaviour in life, one hovering unseen on his right hand, and the other on his left -- one a watcher and the other to record -- what hath it availed me? The agony of death shall come, and the trumpet shall sound! What hath it availed me, that the angel who notes my good actions, hath command over him who notes my bad, and could say, 'forbear setting them down for seven hours, lest peradventure he may repent and pray;' what avails it, when I never committed a good action, and have never prayed or repented me of a bad one; so all are recorded against me! Oh, Nour Mahal, my daughter," he added, in piercing accents, "behold in me the end of a cursed ambition, and of grasping avarice. -- I am Ali Khan, your old and miserable father!"

"My father! impossible -- he was slain, years ago, in the forest of Soonput."

"By the holy Caaba of Mecca, I am he! behold in my breast the wound that was made by the dagger of Shere Afgan."

"But how were you saved?"

"A wandering fakir preserved my life by stanching the wound with the wild nettles of the forest; but better would it have been had he left me there to die. Now, light of my eyes and joy of my old heart, let me kneel and implore your forgiveness for all the past."

And the old pariah rent his beard, heaped dust upon his head and wept.

Then the gentle Nour Mahal wept also and embraced him; and listened to his long story of wanderings and sufferings among the hill-tribes, the Bheels and the Rajpoots.

As a reward for all he had -- it must be admitted, most deservedly -- undergone "he was raised to the office of grand vizier, and was one of the best officers that ever ruled at the court of an eastern prince," so suffering and slavery had taught him wisdom and frugality at last; but his term of office was short after the capture of Selim by Mohabat Khan; he died in extreme old age and was buried in the same tomb in the forest where Shere Afgan lay. An arch still covers the grave of each.

After the death of Selim, Nour Mahal abstained from all amusements, devoting herself entirely to his memory, and wearing no colour but white, the Indian mourning. When she died and was laid by his side at Lahore, it was perceived that her necklace of marvellous turquoises from Khorassan, had lost all their colour and become nearly as white as pearls.

After this event, which occurred in 1646, the tomb in the forest fell gradually to ruin and decay; but such was the story which the old soubadar major told Lena and Harrower of the place in which she had found concealment, and where she had so narrowly escaped the poisonous fangs of the Brahminee cobra.

CHAPTER XXIV.

TRACED AT LAST.

Sorely did Lena Weston require rest of body if she could not get peace of mind.

Even the beauty of the Indian village -- and though its huts were dark, baked, weather-beaten and crazy in construction, it was beautiful -- failed to interest her. It was secluded among the most glorious foliage and luxuriant verdure; there were topes of venerable mango trees, tall tamarinds, with light feathery sprays, plantains with their broad green leaves and golden tinted fruit, and the giant banian, the developed growth of centuries -- old perhaps as the days of Timour -- throwing far and wide its hundred drooping arms, as if to shroud the Hindoo temple of Vishnu, whose walls were white as snowy chunam could make them; shrouding also the old Fakir who sat smoking on a mat under its grateful shadow; the sacred tank, where the brilliant cups and petals of the lotus floated, and where the dancing girls of the temple laved their graceful limbs, before engaging in the strange prayers and sensual ceremonies of the shrine to which they were devoted; and there too, was the pagod tree, with bronze idols placed under its branches, whereon the wild peacocks, the turtle-doves, and brilliant parrots were perching.

For all these beauties of Nature, circumstanced as he was, Jack Harrower cared quite as little as Lena, and would willingly have given all Hindostan, for the bare scalp of Cornish Caddonburrow.

Several weeks elapsed and they remained quietly and unmolested at the house of the Zemindar Kunoujee Lall; Harrower dared not venture beyond the precincts or outer walls, and he writhed under a system of such inactivity and restriction, feeling himself at times almost a prisoner of war.

As in the dwelling of Khoda Bux, he saw very little of Lena, and nothing of the females of the house; but he knew that they left nothing undone to cheer and soothe her, for the Hindoos are a lively and, when not inflamed by fanaticism, a gentle people, whose religion is to them a perpetual source of amusement, inculcating a love of India, "as the most beautiful of all lands, while all its charms -- its streams, and trees, and fruits and flowers -- are associated with its mythology, and are the direct gifts of its millions of gods."

On ascertaining that his guests were not married, and were not even brother and sister, Kunoujee Lall was very much astonished, and this caused Lena sedulously to avoid Harrower as much as possible; but the old soubadar major understood the amenities of European life better than his brother, whom, however, he totally failed to enlighten.

He knew Harrower's regiment well, and had served in brigade with it in the Punjaub under Lord Hardinge, at the storming of Moultan, and at Goojerat, honours now borne on its colours. He greatly enjoyed the society of Harrower, with whom he was never tired of conversing on military topics, and whom he literally bored by constantly "talking shop." The brave old man clung to the hope, that through the European captain, he might get his claims granted, his character cleared, and be reinstated in his rank as a native field-officer when the present troubles should have passed away; but this hope grew less daily, as tidings came of fresh revolts, and it seemed as if the British power in India was crumbling into dust, and was really -- as a thousand prophets had foretold -- to pass away with the hundredth year, after Plassey.

They heard of mutinies at Ferozepore in the province of Agra, when most of the women and children were saved by the Queen's 61st Foot, at Lucknow; at Umballa in Rohilcund; at Cawnpore -- that name of horror -- and everywhere else. In the details of all these, there was a close resemblance; bridges and rails torn up, telegraphs destroyed, magazines sprung, boats sunk in the great rivers, the white officers and civilians slaughtered in cold blood, with their wives and families; but nowhere were such outrages committed as at Meerut and Delhi, save at Cawnpore by the infamous Nana Sahib and his compatriot Azimoolah Khan, both of whom indulged in the wildest lust of blood, and in cruelties alike puerile and revolting; and then they thanked the gods of the Hindoos for the terrible power thus accorded to them, over the unbelieving English.

Such was the pleasant and merry month of May in India; and invariably after insurging, the mutineers, horse, foot and artillery, marched for Delhi, proclaiming everywhere, the downfall of the "Koompanie raj," and the supremacy of the Mogul dynasty.

The dervish Hafiz Falladeen preached in the great mosque, and from the back of a royal elephant in the market place, prophesying with all the fervour of a Mohammedan "Mucklewrath," that the three thousand angels, who were led by the Archangel Gabriel, to the assistance of the prophet at the battle of the Bedr, were again coming through the air to assist Mohamed of Delhi.

Though he concealed from Lena Weston much of what he heard, these tidings of outrage and disaster filled Harrower with emotions of rage -- even of despair -- difficult to describe; rage that he was separated to all appearance so hopelessly from his Regiment, and from assisting in the task of reconquest and revenge -- and a despair for the ultimate safety of Lena in a vast country like India, where the entire native population seemed to be in revolt against us.

The story of the greased cartridges was forgotten now; it was a war of races, of religion, and extermination.

It soon became unpleasantly evident that the Hindoo zemindar, Kunoujee Lall, was beginning to be forcibly impressed by the formidable aspect of power and stability given to the old King of Delhi; and that he feared he had been somewhat rash in so readily according protection to the two Feringhees; thus, after a time his manner became marked by a singular coldness and a decided bearing of reserve, that gave Harrower, who was proud and sensitive, the utmost annoyance and the keenest anxiety, especially when he recalled the first impressions of his character; and this made him whisper to Lena one evening in his homely way,

"By Jove, I am certain that we are outstaying our welcome here, and that we must shift our camp elsewhere, Lena."

That very night the inmates of the zemindar's dwelling were roused by the deep growling and barking of their watchdog, a large Thibet mastiff, and by the sound of a cavalry trumpet, the prolonged notes of which rang loudly at the arched gate in the outer wall that faced the double row of huts forming the street of the village. Harrower had not retired to his charpoy (native bed) so he seized his sword and pistols fully believing that some crisis was at hand, and he met the soubadar major similarly armed hurrying forth with his brother the zemindar, who was in such a pitiable state of trepidation and alarm, that every fold of his loose white garments was quivering and shaking.

The moon was shining with a clear blue kind of brilliance, purer than sublimated silver, that rendered every object as distinct as if it was under the daylight of noon, and on looking from the wall above the gate, they saw three mounted Light Dragoons, clad in the silver, grey uniform worn by all the cavalry of the East India Company's service, accompanied by the half naked Fakir Gunga Rai, who was mounted on a lean little Afghan pony, accoutred with a rope bridle and a piece of folded matting as a saddle.

"Who are you?" demanded the soubadar major, in a tone of authority.

"A naick of the 3rd Light Cavalry," replied one, who had a pair of chevrons on each arm.

"And what do you want -- quarters for the night?"

"No, sahib."

"What then -- people don't blow trumpets in this fashion for nothing."

"I have been sent hither with two sowars as you see, by order of Shumshoodeen Khan, Hissaldar of Horse, to demand the surrender of two of the Ghora-logue, now in your keeping."

"We shall not surrender them either to you or the Rissaldar," replied Bhowanee Lall, drawing a pistol from his belt.

"You must yield them in the name of the King of Delhi, Mohamed Bahadoor Shah," cried the Fakir in his shrill voice.

"We shall yield them to none, while a stone of this house stands upon another -- speak to them, brother, you are the elder, and command here," said the soubadar-major.

But the face of the zemindar was deadly pale; the bead drops glittered on his temple like pearls in the moonlight, and he trembled with fear more violently than ever.

"We have sheltered those you seek," resumed the old native officer, sternly; "they have eaten of our bread and salt, so with us their persons are sacred. Begone to Shumshoodeen Khan, or whoever sent you, and say so. Eight about face, and away, or you will be fired on!" ,

"Your heads shall answer for this!" cried the Fakir, in a voice that mounted to a scream.

"Remember that my brother the zemindar is not to blame, but I alone -- I Bhowanee Lull, soubadar-major of the 15th Bengal Infantry, Doo-ka-Pultan; tell all so within the gates of Delhi."

"I do but obey my orders," replied the naick (i.e., corporal), "and others will come to enforce them."

"Woe to you," cried the Fakir again, lifting his hands above his head; "you shall all be blown from a mortar for this treason."

"How many armed men are in Delhi now?" asked Bhowanee Lall.

"More than fifty thousand, horse and foot."

Harrower thought, at the time, that this was simply oriental exaggeration.

"You still refuse?" said the naick, shortening his reins, and wheeling round his horse.

"Absolutely."

"Such evasion is quite useless," replied the naick, whose breast was covered with silver medals; "by noon to-morrow a sufficient force will arrive, and blow your whole house to pieces."

Again the lean, squalid, and wild-looking Fakir shook his clenched hand menacingly, and the party turned their horses and galloped through the village. As the sound of the hoofs died away on the Delhi road,

"Brother -- Bhowanee Lall," exclaimed the zemindar, in a tone of great bitterness, "you have destroyed me. Of our dwelling, by this time to-morrow, nothing shall remain but the blackness of ashes!"

And muffling his face in the skirt of his long flowing dress, as if to stifle his grief, he hurried away to that part of his house which was allotted to the females of his family, and the numerous olive branches of the house of Lall. The soubadar followed him, and Harrower was left alone for some time, with thoughts more easy to conceive than describe.

For himself he had neither anxiety nor fears; all that agitated him were for Lena -- Lena whom he loved with a passionate and all absorbing love; an emotion all the more tender now, because of her helplessness, and that he was her sole protector.

How little could he conceive that the source of this message from Delhi, might by a strange course of events, be traced to Polly Weston!

CHAPTER XXV.

FLIGHT RESUMED.

In India there is much to puzzle the clearestheaded and strongest minded European; the strange and ancient habits and ideas that have continued unchanged for thousands of years; the childish and yet terrible customs of life and of religion; the force of caste, and the stern, unflinching superstitions of Hindoo, Gueber, Khond, Bheel, and Mohammedan -- superstitions which have come down through uncounted generations of men, with as much certainty as their colour, race, and manners; and then, the latter are so peculiar too, for in India all European notions of everything are completely reversed!

Reflecting on these things, Harrower was still lingering in the moonlight under the verandah, irresolute what to do, afraid even to propose that he and Miss Weston should leave the residence, and once more commit themselves to the highways and bye-ways, lest they might be detained by the timid zemindar, (as hostages to save himself from the new authorities in Delhi) when his troubled reverie was interrupted by the return of the soubadar-major, whose fine dark face wore an unusually stern and gloomy expression.

"My brother is greatly disturbed," said he, "and upbraids me most bitterly, as being, perhaps, the means of his ultimate ruin."

"I understand you -- by giving us shelter here."

"Yes, sahib; but what could I do? I could not have stood idly by, and left you both to perish at the hands of those rascally budmashes, outside the gate."

"I regret all this intensely," replied Harrower.

"I have pacified my brother, however," said Bhowanee Lall -- "for to-night, at least."

"The poor man seems greatly disturbed -- so how did you achieve this?"

"By agreeing that you and the lady should ultimately be surrendered to any force that may come hither to demand you on the morrow."

"Soubadar!" exclaimed Harrower, in whose eyes a fierce flash glittered, as he thought of all the dissimulation of which the Indian nature is supposed to be capable.

But the native officer laughed.

"Ere the naick," said he, "can make his report to that worthy the ex-Thug, his colonel, and long ere other messengers can come, I shall take care that you and the lady too, will be far away from this. I shall also have to fly, and so may easily take the blame of all -- your shelter and escape; though I would rather yield myself up, than have my brother, poor Kunoujee, suffer."

"I cannot sufficiently thank you for all this; but I daresay you are aware that I feel more for the lady I have to protect than for myself, and I tremble at the contemplation of all she may have yet to undergo."

"My presence with you both may alleviate much of that."

"Your Hindoo women are modest and bashful, soubadar; so are our English girls: but to one having a sensitive organisation and being delicately alive to all the proprieties and refinements of our species of civilisation, this career of anxiety and privation is -- for Miss Weston -- terrible!"

"I shall cast my lot with you and her, sahib; for if taken here, I should simply be shot -- perhaps blown from the mouth of a gun by my own men of the 15th now in Delhi, as a deserter from them and the cause of religion." Looking at his watch, he added, "it wants only some five hours of daybreak, yet much may be done in that time; I am an old soldier, and used to expedients. If the lady has not retired, prepare her at once for an immediate start, without acquainting the wife of Kunoujee Lall or any of his female domestics. I shall have three saddled horses at the outer gate precisely at midnight."

"You can actually arrange all this!"

"And more, perhaps, if necessary, for there are people here on whom I can depend, better even than on my timid brother."

The alarm caused by the sound of the trumpet, and the violent barking of the dog, had luckily prevented Lena from retiring as usual, and she was lingering restlessly and feverishly in the drawing-room, where all the oil-shades were extinguished but one, awaiting the appearance of Harrower.

"It was a false alarm, Lena," said he, loth to inflict any unnecessary terror on her; "but a great change has come over that old muff of a zemindar -- "

"A change!"

"Have you observed for some time past that he has been as cross as two sticks, and evidently wishing us anywhere else than here?"

"I have thought his manner less cordial to us certainly."

"Yes, so the soubadar says -- a jolly old fellow is that soubadar -- that we must be off to-night, and at once, as quietly and secretly as possible -- without beat of drum, as we say in barracks; otherwise we might be surrendered to the King of Delhi, which would be decidedly unpleasant."

Jauntily though Harrower spoke, there was a palpable anxiety in his manner. She came close to him when she replied, and saw that his features were pale, and pale too looked her own, in the flickering light of the sconce or oil-shade, while her dark eyes were dilated, yet weary in expression; and now her whole aspect, with the thoughts of the misty future, wrung the loving heart of Jack Harrower.

"You have not quite told all, as I can see by your honest, agitated face, which belies your assumed lightness of manner; but, oh! where will all this end?"

"God alone knows," said he gravely, as he gently took both her hands in his, and felt savage at the old zemindar; yet what could the poor man have done?

Lena sighed deeply. She allowed her hands to rest in his for a longer period than she ever did before; and though they were almost as familiar as brother and sister now -- a familiarity resulting from the peril and peculiarity of their isolated situation -- the touch of her soft hands quickened Harrower^ pulses, and sent a thrill of pleasure to his heart; but she seemed to remember herself, and suddenly withdrew from his loving clasp, saying, with sad earnestness -- 

"We must put our trust in Heaven, and so begin once more our weafy pilgrimage, Captain Harrower."

"Captain Harrower?" he echoed, reproachfully.

"You don't think you have lost your commission, do you?"

"No, Lena -- but I dislike being called so by you -- "

"Why?"

"Simply because -- because -- "

"Why?" she asked again, with a faint smile, for Jack's cheek almost reddened.

"Your hands lingered a moment in mine, and you were ashamed of the emotion of your heart -- a passing emotion of kindness to me -- poor devil!"

"Oh! Jack, forgive me -- my position is a painful, a most peculiar one; and -- oh! don't recur to the past -- now, at least."

"Deuced hard lines!" thought Jack, who had almost begun to forget Mark Rudkin; "but here comes the soubadar major."

Bhowanee Lall appeared, with some garments over his left arm.

"We must disguise ourselves, sahib," said he, "it will greatly facilitate our concealment and ultimate escape."

"But my skin will betray me."

"Not after I have artistically tinted it for you," replied the other, as he produced a little sponge, which he dipped in a China saucer, containing a course brown dye, made from the fruit of the uckroot tree, and after a few applications of this, Harrower's face, neck, and cars, were rendered a light copper colour, a transformation which excited some astonishment, but no amusement, in poor Lena.

"Now, sahib, quick with this disguise."

Harrower's uniform was literally hanging about him in tatters and shreds, so he was not sorry to don a long and loose-sleeved camisc, or blouse, of thick light-blue cotton, which reached below the knee, and in make or fashion closely resembled the coarse linen frock of an English peasant. A species of skull-cap was then given him, of scarlet cloth, with a broad edging of black fur, and a pair of long, lacing boots, of light-brown leather, which completed the costume.

The soubadar major, who had already attired himself in a similar fashion, said, with an air of satisfaction -- 

"Now, sahib, wherever we go we shall pass ourselves off as Afghans, bound on a pilgrimage, or something of that kind. These are some of the things I brought home with me when I served under Brigadier Pollock, in Afghanistan."

"But how about the lady?"

"I have provided for her too."

"How shall we ever thank you -- ever repay you, for all this forethought and kindness!"

"A time will come, I hope, when you may amply do both, Captain. The rich man when he is fighting takes care of his face, and the poor one of his coat. I had only my uniform to boast of, and that is gone now; but I hope, through you, to have it restored to me. Veiled as an Afghan woman, none will molest her, unless, indeed -- which Brahma forbid ! -- we fall among Dacoits, or some such rascals."

He gave to Lena a camise, such as are used by the Afghan women; more ample than that worn by Harrower, it was something of the same fashion, and loose as a domino. It was of very fine stuff, highly painted, and brocaded with silk. She had also a cap of scarlet silk, covering all her forehead and ears, and over this the soubadar placed one of those thick veils, which the Afghan women always draw on the approach of a stranger.

Under their long loose dresses Harrower and Bbowanee Lall placed their swords'and carefullyloaded pistols.

"A lady being with us will excite no surprise," said the latter, "as it is well known that the Afghans -- though jealous fellows enough -- do not, like other Mohammedan races, universally shut up their women, but allow them to go abroad, and that they travel more frequently on horseback than in covered waggons or palanquins. But as the Afghans are Sunis -- most orthodox Mussulmans, hating the Persians as followers of Ali -- they shave the middle of the head, so we must be careful never to remove our caps. Time has shaved mine close enough, sahib, but you -- "

"Trust mc, good soubadar -- I shall be careful," replied Harrower, who felt the uckroot juice, as it dried on his face, anything but a pleasant application.

Extinguishing the oil-shade, by the light of which this masquerading had been completed, Bhowanee Lall led the way, through the open window, out into the verandah, and down the grassy knoll, unseen by all the household, who were probably buried in sleep -- all save the zemindar, who, of course, had no idea of what his troublesome guests were doing, and was too probably full of grief and alarm for the events of to-morrow."

The moon was still clear and bright, and a man in whom the soubadar major placed implicit trust, awaited them at the outer gate with three horses, one of which bore the old side pad given by Khoda Bux.

"I only borrow one horse from my brother," said the soubadar, twisting up his old grey mustache; "this is my old nag that I rode in the 15th, and that is your old artilleryman."

But now when on the very verge of their escape, all was nearly frustrated by the watchdog; for just as they approached the barrier, the enormous Thibet mastiff -- an animal of considerable strength and ferocity, with a long nose, short ears, and pendulous cheeks -- growled hoarsely, and was about to utter its angry, roaring bark, which would infallibly have roused Kunoujee Lall and all his people, when fortunately Bhowanee soothed it by a word or two, on which it snorted a kind of recognition or approval, and coiled itself up to rest again.

Another minute saw them free and mounted outside the walls. The huts of the village were all dark, not a spark of light was visible anywhere, save from a little domed edifice, which was a hospital for old and frail monkeys, erected by some devout person, and to these animals food and money were constantly brought by pilgrims.

"Which way, soubadar?" asked Harrower, who Lena thought looked very handsome with his skin darkened, for his features were fine and regular, his teeth white as pearls, and in addition to his thick black mustache, he had now a beard that any Kuzzilbash of Dost Mohamed might have envied in its amplitude.

"I hope we may strike upon the Ganges, somewhere about or below Jehangerabad, fifty coses from this. There we may get on board a budgerow, and drop down the river to some station held by Europeans. At present I can see no other plan."

"And a very good one it is," said Harrower, approvingly, as they turned their horses' heads eastward; "Jehangerabad be it."

"Jehangerabad, indeed!" muttered a man whose crouching figure, as he lay close to the outer wall of the fort, had been concealed by the strong, black depth of shadow, and a hideous figure it was, almost nude, hairy as a gorilla, with tangled elflocks overhanging his wild eyes, that seemed to be always glaring evil; "many more than you, false Kaffirs, will be on the way there to-morrow," and he shook his clenched hand as he spoke; "Feringhees disguised as Afghans -- as Sunis -- ho! ho!"

It was the Fakir Gunga Rai who had remained behind to watch, in his rancorous blood-thirstiness and fanaticism, while the naick and his file of troopers returned to Delhi, for which place this reverend personage departed at once, with all the speed he could force his old Afghan pony to exert.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE BROKEN BEIDGE.

The aqueduct of Ali Merdan Khan and the trunk road to Kurnaul were soon crossed, and as Bhowance Lall knew the country well thereabout, he proposed to seek a byepath that led to a pontoon bridge over the Jumna near Bhagput.

About dawn they crossed the stream, and as the heat of the morning grew apace, took shelter in a forest, where there was such a crowing of cocks and clucking of hens, that, as Jack said, "One might have thought all the barnyards of Britain were there," for in India all our domestic fowls are to be found wild.

After a time this subsided, and nothing was heard in the solitude but the chattering of monkeys and the voice of the nightingale as it sung (though in the day-time) from a pomegranate-tree. The horses were stabled under the branches and unbitted for a feed of corn, which the thoughtful soubadar had provided in a bag attached to his saddle bow.

The exercise of the early morning ride, with perhaps a flush of hope, had given a slight tinge of colour to Lena's damask cheek, adding to the delicate beauty of her clearly formed features and to the light of her soft dark eyes. She smoothed her silky brown hair, and giving a faint smile at the picturesque but odd figure of Harrower, who was regarding her with tender solicitude, she said -- 

"I shall sleep a little if I can, Jack, I am so weary."

"Do, Lena, if you may achieve it, for we have a long ride before us to-night."

"If I ever survive these strange passages of life -- which I greatly doubt" -- said she, "I shall have them often in my dreams at night for years to come."

Ere long she was fast asleep with the Afghan veil drawn over her face, and thus she escaped the alarm caused to her two companions by the sudden appearance of three horsemen, well armed and mounted, evidently a young gentleman of Oude, and his two attendants, who had sought the protection of the forest from the noonday heat, and were now passing forth towards the highways. They reined up their horses and observed the little bivouac with enquiring eyes. They had all large white turbans; the two attendants had shields slung on their backs, and were armed with long lances having scarlet tassels under the pike head. They rode without boots, and with their bare feet in the stirrups, but their leader was richly clothed and had long leggings of fine brown leather stamped with gold.

Harrower felt irritable and uneasy under his scrutiny, and trembled in his heart lest Lena should awake or lift her veil, and show that she was one of the Ghora Logue and beautiful.

"What are you, sahibs?" enquired the leader.

"Afghans," replied the soubadar major, curtly.

"Afghans -- here!" exclaimed the other, with increasing surprise.

"Yes, sahib; what is there peculiar in our being so?"

"You do not speak like those I have met at Cabul."

"Very likely, for we are Khyberees."

"Whither are you going -- if to Delhi, to take service under Mohammed Shah and the princes? Come with me -- I am Nour-ad-deen Abraha al Ashram."

"But we are not going to Delhi."

"Where then?" persisted this inquisitive personage, who was very elaborately armed, with sabre, poniard, and a double brace of pistols.

"We go to Meerut -- on a pilgrimage."

"To the tomb of Abu?"

"Exactly, sahib -- to the tomb of Abu."

"Good -- the shadow of the prophet be over you," said the gentleman of Oude, as he and his two followers rode off, not, however, without repeatedly looking back, with an air of suspicion.

"Perdition follow him, for the lies he has made me tell! But we must to horse, sahib," said the soubadar, tugging at his grey mustache, the moment the three strangers disappeared; "that man has some doubts of us, else he had never dared to question me so closely. He goes to Delhi, and if he should meet the party we are endeavouring to elude, he may give them a clue where to find us."

Lena was roused from her temporary, but happy oblivion; the horses were bitted, and though the heat of noon was not yet past, they once more took to the road at a rapid trot; they galloped right through the little town of Bhagput, and pushed on for Jelalabad, which lies fourteen miles south-eastward of it.

There the country was open; rich fields of maize and corn were interspersed with green and beautiful clumps of mangoes, and other fruit trees, and here and there grew the superb date palm, "whose head," as an Oriental poet has it, "reclines languidly like that of a handsome woman, overcome with sleep." These groves, and all the far stretching landscape, seemed to be vibrating and quivering in the hot, bright rays of the unclouded sun, as the travellers rode on at a quick pace, and in silence, for more than ten miles, till an angry interjection escaped the lips of the soubadar-major; he reined up his horse, and twisted his mustache about -- a custom he had, when provoked or in doubt.

His practised eye had detected something else than the trees and fields quivering in the sunbeams -- the glitter of military accoutrements at some miles distance.

"Cavalry," he exclaimed; "and on the march!"

"Can you make them out at this distance?" asked Harrower; "I can only see something sparkling in the sun, about three miles off -- it may be the windows of a house -- or a brass dome."

"The windows, and the dome too, would both stand still, sahib; but that 'something' which you see is the glittering of accoutrements. When Infantry are on the march towards you, the reflection of the sunshine from their arms is steady, and never wavers as yonder glitter does, by the double motion of the man and horse when riding."

With growing anxiety, they continued to watch these objects.

The glittering rapidly increased, and ere long the dark figures of the horses and their riders could be distinctly seen, as they traversed the open country, pursuing the broad trunk road that leads from Delhi, through Meerut.

"They are coming straight this way," said Lena, with growing agitation.

"Yet they cannot be after us," suggested Harrower, "for if so, they would seek us on the western, and not the eastern side of the city."

He little knew how accurate was the knowledge of their movements, possessed by Baboo Bulli Sing and others.

"Shall we wheel about and avoid them, or pass on and trust to our disguises?" he asked.

"We can trust to nothing but our horses' heels!" said Bhowanee Lall, emphatically.

"Why?"

"They are so close now, that I can make them out distinctly."

"The strong sunshine dazzles my sight," said Harrower, shading his eyes with his right hand.

"But not mine, sahib; there are twelve sowars of the 3rd Cavalry, and a stranger, mounted on a small horse -- Gunga Rai, the fakir -- it is he, by the soul of Brahma!"

The three now turned their horses' heads, and rode off towards the more wooded portion of the country -- the place they had just quitted. On perceiving this, a faint cry came floating over the fields on the light breeze, and it was evident that they had been seen, and the flight and pursuit had begun!

The troopers urged their horses to a gallop, and the glittering among them increased greatly, for now they had all drawn their swords. In short, it was a sergeant's party, sent out to intercept them on the road to Jehangerhabad, in accordance with the information given by Gunga Rai.

"Who could have anticipated that already our disguises would avail us so little !" said Lena, in a piteous tone.

It was fortunate for Miss Weston that she was a practised and well-trained horsewoman, yet the clumsy action of the artillery horse she rode was anything but pleasant, and fatigued her greatly.

For a time -- but a brief time, only -- they distanced the pursuers by more than a mile, as they dashed along a neglected and unfrequented old road, that led to some woody and hilly ground on the left of the way they had been traversing; but the better mounted troopers of the Light Cavalry now gained on them fast -- those dreaded 3rd Bengal Cavalry, who had committed so many atrocities, and destroyed poor Colonel Ripley and the officers of the 54th Regiment.

While galloping furiously on, leaping their horses over stony runnels and rugged gullies, plunging down sometimes into ravines, where jungle, brushwood, giant leaves, green gourds, and yellow pumpkins grew, rank and thick together, with wild figs, trailers and cotton plants; on -- on, they knew not whither, and only seeing that the road was becoming more rough, more hilly, and more broken up -- while riding thus, we say, Harrower looked back with rage and bitterness mingling in his heart.

One sowar had outridden all the rest, being perhaps better mounted. Jack could see with painful distinctness -- the fellow was so close -- his handsome silver grey uniform, faced with scarlet, and the glancing appointments; his white helmet and dark face; his sword blade that flashed in the sun; his foam flecked horse, with flattened, distended nostrils, and neck outstretched, with the long mane floating backward in the air. He was barely a hundred yards distant from them now, and a shot from his pistol or carbine might prove, by wounding one, the destruction of them all.

If Lena's horse fell, the soubadar and he could but die sword in hand, by her side!

"Push on, Lena," he cried; "keep your hand firm on the bridle, my dear girl, and shorten the reins. These scoundrels are too many for us, and we may come to grief at last; yet it will go hard with me," he added, "if I do not polish off one Pandy, at least!"

Jack drew a pistol from his belt as he spoke, and checking his horse until the leading sowar came within range, he took a deadly aim, and -- fired!

With a wild cry, the trooper threw up his arms and his sword, and fell over the crupper of his charger, which reared and fell back upon him, while Harrower again lashed his horse after his companions; and all the swifter had they to speed, that blood had now been shed.

"There, one greased cartridge has done its work well!" thought Harrower, grimly.

But what new calamity was this; which drew an exclamation of dismay from soubadarmajor?

The roadway seemed to end, where broad in front of them, lay the roaring current of a mountain stream, a deep and brawling tributary of the Jumna, which there were no apparent means of crossing, for the old bridge that had been built by Ali Merdan Khan, which had rung beneath the Persian host of Nadir Shah, and later still to the marching brigades of "Wellesley Sahib," and the victors of Assaye had long since gone to ruin, and been swept from its marble piers.

The deep river was roaring in their front, and twelve mounted enemies, fired by all the fury that fanaticism and lust of cruelty could engender, were pressing close behind them!

END OF VOL. II.