CHAPTER I.

GEORGE ROLLESTON, AND HIS HOME.

THE wind blew, and the rain fell unceasingly, until the road was deep with sodden masses of decayed vegetation which, but a few weeks before, had been the glory of the great overhanging trees. These trees, all but leafless now, stood in the avenue of Rolleston Court, in the county of Berkshire -- stood there bearing witness to the early coming of the cold damp autumn weather, which had robbed them untimely of the wealth and beauty of their foliage. Still, gazing at the fine skeletons rearing their heads on either side the drive; you might have doubted whether these forest giants were not grander and more impressive in their unclothed dignity than when clad in their luxuriant mantle of summer green.

Strolling up the avenue, with the wind blowing and the rain beating on him -- with mud upon his boots, his trousers, his shooting-jacket, even on his billycock hat -- appeared the hero of this story. Wet and dirty, and cold as he must have been, he sauntered leisurely along on this chill evening, as though the trees were full of leaves, the birds of song, and the sky of sunshine. A tall, lanky boy he is -- only fifteen really, but looking full two years older; and to judge by the large frame, encased as it is in but a thin covering of flesh, George Rolleston bids fair to look at seventeen like a man of twenty. He has, as old William the coachman often tells Mrs. Martin -- once George's nurse, but now the landlady of the village inn -- "the makins of a fine man in him." And the old man sometimes adds: -- 

"And Master George may grow up into a nice gentleman too, some day, if he ain't driv out of his mind first by Madam. But I do think she be loike to drive him mad or bad; I do."

Now that William has mentioned her, I may as well say who Madam is. Madam is the sorrow of George's life, the evil star that rose over his destiny some twelve years before this story begins. It shines over Rolleston Court -- for Madam is the mistress there -- with a false garish light which makes strangers wonder at its brightness, unconscious of the gloom within. Madam is George Rolleston's step - mother. Now, do not, you boys who read this true history, suppose that I think ill of step-mothers in general. Not at all. In my experience I have known many boys far the happier for their fathers having remarried. I have known them as boys happier, and as men better, for having had a step-mother. But Madam, as Mrs. Rolleston was always called in and about the Court, was not a happy choice on the part of George's father. She was a selfish vain young woman when he married her; without a single recommendation except her rare beauty. While George was quite a little fellow she was almost kind to him; she saw but little of him as he was kept a great deal in his own set of rooms at the other end of the house by his nurse, who took care that Madam should not interfere with him, nor he with her. When George was about four years old, baby Eric appeared; and for some time after -- in fact, until Eric could run alone -- there seemed no change in Mrs. Rolleston's manner to George; but then jealousy crept in, and her true nature began to show itself. At seven years old George was sent to school; Mr. Rolleston had doted upon the child up to this time. He had been warmly attached to his first wife; and when she died, leaving little George, a wailing, weakly baby to his care, he determined to devote his life to the boy; but Madam's pretty face soon scattered these good resolutions to the wind. After Mr. Rolleston's second marriage, his wife took the first place in his affection; but next to her he still loved his only child. When Eric was born, however, poor George soon fell into the third place; and, to use sporting language, into a bad third -- he was nowhere, in fact, in the race which had his father's affection for the winning post. For seven or eight years George had only been at home during the holidays. His love for his father was not so strong as it had been; and for his step-mother his feeling was anything but that of affection; while for Eric, who was a nasty, spoilt boy, he entertained a sort of pitying contempt. Still he had a pleasure in being at home; he always felt more strongly while there the sense of his own importance as the eldest son of the owner of Rolleston Court. As a child, George had a loving heart and a good and gentle nature, but very different qualities were now beginning to show themselves in his character. In opposition to the tone Mrs. Rolleston systematically adopted towards him -- a tone which was intended to humiliate, and consisted of perpetual fault-finding -- George acquired a habit of self-assertion, and a manner which he intended to be dignified, but which was at once arrogant and hard. This manner was at first assumed simply in self-defence against his step-mother, but it grew upon him, and was gradually becoming a characteristic of the boy. To this fault must be added another: George was extremely indolent; he hated taking trouble about anything; and thought the world would be a pleasant place enough if there were only no step-mothers in it. But even Madam, he imagined, however much she might annoy him, could never injure him; and whenever he thought of the future, he saw little to be anxious about in the path before him. He had a horror of poverty, but felt no fear of it for himselfDid not his father possess the Court, and acres and acres of good land spreading far away; and was not the rent-roll large enough for the eldest son to be free of all care for his worldly future?

George sauntered up the avenue with his hands in his pockets. Lazy George! The rain poured down, and his feet sank deeper in the mud every minute; still he sauntered slowly along, smiling to himself as he thought of the black looks of Madam if she should see him come into the great hall in such a plight. A little behind him walked an under-keeper carrying his gun, and a bag containing a hare and a bird or two. George was staying at home later in the year than usual, for his tutor had been ill, and the return of the pupils after the holidays had been delayed in consequence. Thus it happened that he had come in for some September shooting. Up the avenue, through wet and slush, strolled George; through the iron gates which led into the pleasure-grounds; then, striking from the drive, he made a short cut across the grass, and winding among beds of rhododendrons and azalias, came out in front of the house.

Rolleston Court was new, though built in imitation of an old Elizabethan manor-house. In structure it was somewhat irregular, with numerous gable ends and huge twisted chimneys, from several of which the smoke was now curling; there were deep bay-windows too, with diamondpane lattices in many of them. Large stables, just detached from the house and half hidden by trees, added to the imposing effect of the whole, by giving the impression of a still more extensive range of buildings. The interior of the house harmonized with its architecture, and, when you mounted the steps and passed under the fantastic stone carving of the porch, you found yourself at once in a vast hall, which it was difficult to believe was not of genuine antiquity. The walls were hung with tapestry; the floor was of polished oak, and massive beams of oak crossed the ceiling, making a gigantic trellis-work. Along each side of the hall, in niches, stood wooden figures clad in suits of armour, which had once been worn by members of the Rolleston family; while above their heads old banners floated, which had been borne or captured by the wearers of the armour in wars of a time long past, perhaps mostly in the border warfare of the "north countrie." The great fireplace was of vast dimensions, and gave forth a goodly heat in winter time, when the huge logs of wood, crackling upon the dogs, sent forth their volumes of smoke, and the sparks raced merrily up the great chimney.

Though the place was new, the Rollestons were an ancient family. They came from the north, and it was in the old house in Northumberland that George had been born, and that his mother had died. But when the present Mrs. Rolleston had accepted the hand of George's father, she had stipulated that the old place, which had gone down from father to son for so many generations, should be sold, and that the family should take root afresh in a new soil more in the south. Her ostensible motive for insisting on this change was that her health would not bear the climate of the north; but Madam was more cunning than she looked, and there was a deeper motive which she did not show. She wished to separate her husband from old associations and family traditions connected with the estate. She knew that this concession once gained from him, others would be easier to win, and felt that her power would be greater were she to commence her reign in a place where things and people were alike new. So the old home passed into other hands, the estate was sold, and one of about equal value purchased in Berkshire, where the existing house, not being considered sufficiently important, was pulled down, and Rolleston Court erected on the site. New servants came, old family retainers were dismissed. Only two transplanted themselves with the family, and those were George's nurse and old William, the coachman, who had been groom to Mr. Rolleston when a young man.

George lazily stretched out his hand to the keeper for his gun, as he mounted the steps, and telling him to take the bag of game round to the kitchen, laid his hand upon the hall door. To his surprise he found it fastened within, and through the glass of the upper part of the door peered Eric's face. It was not naturally an ugly face, but at this moment it was so distorted by its ill-natured and cunning expression, that it became quite repulsive in the eyes of George, to whom it was never particularly pleasing. Both were fair boys of true Saxon type, and Eric had the advantage in regularity of features. But George had blue, bright, honest eyes, and thick, curly, chestnut hair; while Eric's were deep set, very light, and placed too near together.

Eric stood within the hall clad . in a neat velveteen suit, and spotless shoes and stockings, with well-brushed hair, and clean, shining face; George without, dirty, wet, and out of sorts. The two boys looked at each other; then George shouted -- 

"Open the door."

"Shan't," retorted Eric. "Mamma said you weren't to come into the hall if you had dirty boots, and you have now, and beastly dirty ones too."

George's face flushed, and he said, "Let me in, I want to get ready for dinner. It will be the worse for you if you don't."

Putting out his tongue and making an ugly face, Eric called out in an insolent tone, "Go round by the kitchen. Shan't come in here."

But George was not going to give in to his younger brother, insolent puppy as he thought him. The idea! He, the future master of the house, to be turned from the front door, and told to enter by the kitchen! Not he!

George was both stupid and wrong in wishing at first to come into the hall with the mud and dirt he had about him, but we cannot wonder that Eric's impertinence made him obstinate. Without another word he dashed his fist through the glass pane, and feeling for the bolt, pulled it back and let himself in. Content with this, and regardless of a cut on the wrist which he got for his pains, he turned his back on his brother, and began to draw out the charge of his gun. Eric took a whip from a stand close by, and, going up to George, screamed out in a voice of rage -- 

"How dare you break the window? I'll tell mamma. How dare you bring your beastly gun here? Mamma's afraid of it."

With these words he struck George across the face with the whip. Smarting under the blow, George turned upon him with a white face, the livid mark of the whip showing on his cheek; and raising his right hand, in which he held the ramrod, he brought it down heavily upon Eric's head. The boy uttered a loud cry, and fell on the ground; the blood poured down his face and over his white collar. George, frightened at what he had done, was about to lift him up and call out for help, when he heard a rustling close by, and Madam stood beside him.

CHAPTER II.

POOR SANCHO.

MRS. ROLLESTON raised her darling's head upon her knee as she knelt upon the ground, and stanched the blood with her lace handkerchief. Not a word did she speak, but just turned her eyes upon George with such a look of concentrated passion as he had never seen in eyes before. Eric looked up in a second, and showed that his wound was not mortal, by alternately screaming and abusing George; appealing to his mother to have him beaten and turned out of the house: declaring he was a murderer, and his, Eric's, life not safe while he remained.

The sounds of discord at last reached the ears of Mr. Rolleston in his dressing-room, and brought him hurrying down the broad oak staircase. His short and stout figure -- for George inherited his height from his mother -- seemed to roll like a ball down the shallow steps; past the painted window, where the arms of his ancestors were emblazoned; past the bear sitting on his hind legs supporting the heavy oaken bannister; over the slippery floor, till he reached the group on the Turkey carpet in the middle of the hall. It scarcely needed Eric's voice declaring he was killed, to explain the scene to Mr. Rolleston; one glance at his wife's face, and his verdict was decided upon. A hasty, violent man was Mr. Rolleston, and apt to be unjust in the heat of his passion. Hurrying up to George with his fist clenched, his round, blue eyes sparkling, and his short, iron-gray hair almost bristling on his head, he cried, -- 

"Go up to your room, sir, and do not let me see you again: Cain in thought and intention, if not in very deed, you are not fit to live in the house with beings less savage than yourself. Tomorrow you leave this house and return to your tutor's, and these are the last holidays you pass under my roof."

George's attempted justification of himself was useless; there had been no witness of the quarrel, and the broken glass of the door was only another proof, in the opinion of Mr. Rolleston, of his son's ungovernable violence.

George mounted slowly to his own room, his blood boiling at the unjust treatment he had received. Possibly, Mr. Rolleston would have relented had he been left to himself, but Madam took good care not to let the opportunity slip of turning her husband's heart from George. As Mr. and Mrs. Rolleston sat opposite one another at the dinner-table, which looked a mere speck in the middle of the great dining-room, few words were exchanged between them. The master of the house talked and ate but little; and wore an expression of annoyance upon his face, which might be interpreted to signify that he was not well satisfied with himself, and thought he had been harsh to his eldest son. The conversation of Madam consisted of little else than reiterated expressions of pity for poor Eric, who sat close beside her with his head tied up; and whose rueful face seemed intended to excite the compassion of his father.

That night Mr. Rolleston wrote a letter to George, telling him that if he would come down to his study early the next morning, and would faithfully promise that such a scene of violence should never occur again, he would still permit him to return home at Christmas; but he must also ask pardon of Mrs. Rolleston. George tore the letter to pieces directly he had read it, and scattered the fragments over the room; then in his passion he sent word back by the servant, that he would never ask Mrs. Rolleston's pardon; and as for that brat, Eric, as he called him, he had only got what he richly deserved. Now, George had been filled with remorse at first after he had struck Eric, and felt ashamed of having dealt so severe a blow to a little fellow four years his junior; but when he found himself the object of unjust severity, his heart hardened, and his obstinacy and pride rose up in opposition. This was just an example of the sort of struggle between the good and evil in George's nature which was continually taking place. If he had met with affection, he might have been unselfish in return; but, on these occasions, when he adopted the means which his pride and anger counselled for holding his own against Mrs. Rolleston, he was just lending himself to her schemes. For instance, if she snubbed him, as she was fond of doing, before the servants, his only idea of recovering his importance in their eyes, was to assume an air of grandeur and order them about as if he were already master of Rolleston Court. These, and many similar shortcomings, did not pass unnoticed by his father, and Madam took care that when repeated to him they should never lose in the telling.

George left Rolleston Court the next morning without seeing his' father; he drove off in the dog-cart with old William the coachman beside him. No one wished him "good-bye;" no one saw him go but the footman who waited on him at his early breakfast, and stood at the door as he drove off. The roads were wet and slushy with the rain of the day before; but the sun shone brightly, and the birds sang out, and hopped about, looking for the harvest of earthworms, which was cropping up after the rain. Brown Bob stepped out briskly, and as they went spinning along through the country lanes, it did seem very hard to George to have to leave his home in this summary way; and all for that little brat, Eric. William, seeing his young master brooding and sad, tried to rouse and cheer him up in his own way; he talked of the game, the covers, and the prospect of good sport; but the subject was unluckily chosen; even the sight of partridges getting up in a field close by, or a pheasant crossing the road, made George's heart the heavier at having to leave them. This was the first season that he had been allowed to join his father in dealing destruction to the game, and he would fain have had a little more of it. They drew up in front of the Faringdon Station just as a train was ready to start. George got down, and without bidding the faithful old servant goodbye, without a word, except a command to him to see that his portmanteau was taken out, marched off to the booking-office to take his ticket for Paddington. Poor old William gazed after him, and rubbed his eyes a little. During the long ten miles' drive, the old man had done his best to try and comfort his young master, and he felt it hard that his efforts should be met only with haughty silence, and that he should be treated at last so coldly.

Off flew the train, puffing, screaming, hurrying on through the Vale of White Horse; past such rich pastures as this part of Berkshire is celebrated for; past shady lanes; past villages and village greens, where pigs and geese run riot; past clumps of beech and fir-trees, with growth of thorn and underwood; past all the country sights which were very dear to our poor George. At about three o'clock he arrived at Paddington; but George's destination was Brighton, where his tutor, Mr. Whitfield lived. A telegram, announcing his intended return, had been sent by Mr. Rolleston's direction when George left Faringdon Station. He took a hansom, and went straight to the Victoria Terminus, where he dined in the refreshment-room, and then sped on again to Brighton. He arrived at Mr. Whitfield's in the evening to find that gentleman -- who was barely recovered from his illness -- expecting him with a very grave face, and prepared to hear the reason of his sudden return. However, George was not communicative, neither to him nor to his weak-eyed and tender-hearted little wife. Our hero was apt, in moods like the present, to treat all the world with a sort of sullen indifference. But we must leave him now, settling to his work in his tutor's" house upon the Downs at Brighton, every day growing less popular both with his master and the three or four other pupils who were working with him.

"I'll tell you what it ith," said young Spilling, another of Mr. Whitfield's pupils, a moonfaced youth with a lisp, to a chosen friend; "that young Rolleston geth more cheeky and poinpouth every day. I with he wath a beggar, that I do: he givth himself suth airth."

Rid of his eldest son, Mr. Rolleston promoted Eric to George's vacant place; and day by day the boy, now about eleven years old, spent more of his time with his father. At last one morning, about a month after George's departure, Mr. Rolleston took Eric out shooting with him. The party consisted of the father and son, and Eric's tutor, who lived in the house, a keeper, and two dogs -- one, a beautiful liver-coloured pointer, called Sancho, George's favourite among all the dogs about the place. How Sancho got his name I know not, for anything so unlike Sancho Panza cannot well be imagined. The old dog was a true instance of a great mind wearing out a frail body; for I believe there never was known a cleverer or better dog in the field, and certainly there has seldom been seen a thinner one; do what the keepers would they could not fatten him. Eric was not only to be present at the day's sport, but to carry a gun -- George's gun; he was to be allowed to have three shots during the day, and that was all. Mrs. Rolleston stood upon the steps to bid her darling adieu, and quite an affecting scene it was too.

The sportsmen started off; Eric marching with his conceited little head in the air, so proud and pleased that George's gun was handed over to him. It is much such a morning as the one on which George had his solitary journey when sent in disgrace away from home. The sun is as bright, but the trees are more bare than they were then; and there is a touch of frostiness in the air. We must follow the shooting party into a certain field of turnips just beyond the boundary of the park surrounding Rolleston Court. It is about eleven o'clock; the air is still, the scent good. Sancho is trotting along behind the keeper with his head slightly bent, and his nostrils quivering now and then as some suspicion of scent comes upon him. When they get into the field, the dogs go in advance, smelling here and there, eagerly searching for the game. Eric is to have his first shot as soon as the birds get up. The boy walks by his father's side, incessantly questioning him about the partridges, while the tutor is rather behind, merely a looker on. Presently Sancho stops short, his head turned a little to the right, one paw up, and his tail standing straight out; the old dog is as immovable as a dog carved in stone might be. Mr. Rolleston bids Eric cock his gun, and put it to his shoulder in readiness to fire. Eric flurried, nervous, and cross at its being supposed that he does not know exactly what to do, is anything but prepared. There is a whirr-r-r heard to the right, a little in advance of Sancho; and a covey, numbering some dozen birds, rise upon the wing. Then comes a report and a flash from Eric's gun; a loud howl follows. The partridges, all unharmed, betake themselves in safety to another field, while poor Sancho lies stretched on the ground, having received the contents of Master Eric's gun in his back, neck, and shoulder. Mr. Rolleston is almost speechless with anger; the keepers are furious, and utter oaths deep if not loud; but Eric, who has managed to let the gun kick him pretty hard on the shoulder, is, lamenting over his own pain, and pays no regard whatever to the poor old dog.

Sancho is not killed, but badly hurt; a keeper goes off for a wheelbarrow, which they fill with straw; the wounded veteran is gently lifted in, and wheeled home; and the shooting is over for the day^-Mr. Rolleston vowing that Eric shall not try his hand as a sportsman again for many a long day. Perhaps the thought occurred to him that Eric never could be his companion in sport as George might have been. If the reflecttion crossed his mind, however, he kept it to himself; George was not to be forgiven.

So much for Eric's first shot. Sancho lived, but remained for a long time an interesting invalid; and used to be taken out for an airing in his wheelbarrow every day. With his head reclining on the straw, and one long thin paw hanging over the side of the barrow, Sancho really seemed to enjoy his morning drive. The keeper used to say that his gentleness and sweetness of temper would be a lesson to many children and grown-up people too; and that on the day they brought him home so sorely wounded, he seemed as grateful for their care as "any Christian creature." The poor dog, however, received such a shock to his nerves, that he was never fit for anything as a sporting dog afterwards. They took him out, but directly he found the birds, he would throw himself upon the ground, whining piteously, and holding up his paw; he evidently thought he was going to be shot again.

When this little episode, of which Eric was the hero, took place, the year was already showing signs of drawing to a close. November had come on with its short days and fogs, bringing its feeling of sadness to the middle-aged and old -- to those on the top of the hill, and to those creeping slowly but surely downwards. To you young ones, stepping out so bravely as yet on the gentle upward slope, where the soft turf lies and the bright sunshine of home-love rests -- to you, November only brings a thought of holidays soon coming, of merry games and stories told by firelight; of a new year at hand in which to grow taller, stronger, wiser, and to approach nearer to the longed-for grown-up time. Even George, although no line had reached him from his father, looked forward to the Christmas holidays with a sort of hope that things at home might yet come round.

But before that Christmas came, two events occurred which changed altogether his plans and his hopes. One afternoon in November, the butler and Mrs. Bounce, the housekeeper, were called into Mr. Rolleston's library, to witness their master's signature to a codicil that had been added to his will. What that codicil signified they knew not, but when the butler glanced at Madam who was present on the occasion, he saw an expression on her face, which made him afterwards prophesy that the affair boded no good to Master George. The other event, which occurred a few days later, is too important for the conclusion of a chapter.

CHAPTER III.

LIFE AND DEATH,

ONE morning about the middle of December, Mrs. Rolleston, lying on her boudoir sofa, wrapped in a white cashmere dressing-gown, trimmed with lace and lined with quilted satin, sent for her husband to come and speak to her. Her boudoir was one of the few rooms in the house which did not harmonize with the Elizabethan style of the building; no dark polished oak nor heavy rafters were there; large panes of plate-glass were in the windows, through which might be seen the magnificent view of wood and pasture, hill and valley; easy-chairs and sofas of the most luxurious modern shapes stood about; one's foot sank into the soft carpet as if treading upon moss; and the general effect of the room was that of a profusion of lace, muslin, and satin; with costly knicknacks and precious china scattered everywhere, and withal a pleasant harmony of pale and delicate colours pervading furniture and decorations. Madam wore a discontented, peevish expression on her handsome face -- an expression of ill-humour of of ennui, perhaps of both. She had been thinking, that morning, that lines were beginning to show themselves upon her pink-and-white skin, and that she was certainly looking older than she used to look. The dreadful thought had intruded itself rudely upon her meditations, that she would get older year by year. In such a frame of mind, she sent for her husband, and, on his appearance, spoke in this wise: -- 

"What is the use of having carriages if you don't use them, John?"

Mr. Rolleston gazed at her with loving eyes, yet with a somewhat fearful expression in them: he was afraid of a scene; for when Madam was short of employment, she was fond of picking a little quarrel just to pass the time, and very bitter were the words which passed the pretty rosy lips on those occasions.

"To what do you refer, my dear?" her husband rejoined.

"Refer! why, of course to the drag and your fine team. You have only taken me out half-adozen times altogether, and you know there is nothing I love like sitting on the box, and spinning along the roads."

"Well, well," said Mr. Rolleston, and he 'scratched his head; "I thought it was scarcely weather for that sort of thing. Besides, my love, you have driven out nearly every day in your carriage, while I have been hunting or shooting."

"Then, for the future, will you remember that I like driving on the top of the drag, and that I don't like driving alone, or only with Eric, in a stupid barouche; and that this is the weather, of all others, for sitting on the drag?" Thus spoke the perverse little woman.

Accordingly, to the surprise of coachman, grooms, and helpers, orders were received early on the following morning to prepare the drag; and soon after breakfast it was seen issuing from under the archway of the stable-yard belonging to Rolleston Court, with its master seated on the box, coaching it round the drive up to the front door. The object of the morning's drive is to be present at a meet of the hounds, which is held about seven miles off, at a place called Compton Moor. Madam has not the nerve requisite for hunting, but she takes pleasure in sitting lazily, and looking on at the fun. This is the first meet she has been to this season; it is a favourite place, and all the best people of the neighbourhood will be there. The morning is favourable for a good scent: a light wind is blowing from the south-west, and the air is soft and mild for December. The old folks down in Bymaston village shake their heads, and predict a green Christmas coming. All the country about gives forth a sweet, fresh smell, and, but for the bare hedges and the leafless trees, it would be hard to believe one was so near the end of the poor old year.

The four chestnuts came up, held well together and in good form by their master, their bright coats shining in the sun. Proud of themselves they looked as, arching their necks and stepping out bravely, they swept along under the naked branches, and drew up at the porch, where Madam was standing ready to mount to her lofty seat. In a moment the grooms are at the horses' heads; Mr. Rolleston half lifts, half helps, his wife up, then mounts again beside her, and gathers up the reins. The horses are let go, and off they start at a rattling pace. The grooms have a scramble for it to get up behind; then on through the gate of the pleasure grounds, and soon the drag is swinging along down the avenue, where we remember George walking in his lazy fashion on that rainy day, now nearly three months back.

Mr. Rolleston's team has done little work of late. The four chestnuts have been living in that state of idleness which is called, in stable language, eating their own heads off. Now they seemed determined to make the most of their opportunity for exercise and air. They were ready -- again to use a groom's expression -- to jump out of their skins, and as the drag passed the Lodge, and turned from the avenue into the high road, the leaders began to pull so hard it was all Mr. Rolleston could do to keep them at all in hand. At every turn of the road, as they drive along, they come upon some man in pink making in the same direction as themselves, and upon Compton Moor the red coats gleam in all directions. It is a gay scene -- the fair landscape, the sunshine, the blue sky, with here and there fleecy white clouds, and the gathering of huntsmen on the ground. upon poor Reynard; the field is getting scattered too, only a few are keeping up with the hounds, but in their wake little dots of red appear at intervals in the landscape. Several stoppages and some spills have taken place at a certain ugly fence, with a ditch beyond. Breathlessly, Mr. Rolleston, who is a great lover of field sports, and longs at that moment to be outside his best hunter -- watches the pack gaining on their prey. The hounds are keeping, beautifully together; seen from the hill on which the drag is standing, it seems almost as if you could cover the pack with a pocket-handkerchief. Closer and closer they press, until the fox's chance seems but a very sorry one. But Reynard is still fresh, and just as Mr. Rolleston had opened his lips to exclaim, "They will run him down, by Jove," the fox slips into the underwood of the copse, and for the moment at least is in safety.

The hounds are now, with their huntsman and whip, searching the covert, which lies just below the eminence where the Rollestons' drag is standing. Presently a loud shout is heard, with cries of "Gone away," and one of those prolonged screams which signify that the sportsman has actually seen the fox with his own eyes. Reynard had broken covert, and was soon visible speeding over the open ground below. He is quickly followed by two or three couple of hounds with the huntsman, while the whip is bringing up the body of the pack. Mr. and Mrs. Rolleston stand up, gazing into the valley beneath, where they can -see fox, hounds, and riders, all straining madly forward. For more than a mile the fox runs straight ahead, then makes a curve, evidently with the hope of gaining a hill not far away, where he might find shelter in a friendly copse. It is a moment of great excitement. The hounds, with their heads well down, are gaining rapidly upon poor Reynard; the field is getting scattered too, only a few are keeping up with the hounds, but in their wake little dots of red appear at intervals in the landscape. Several stoppages and some spills have taken place at a certain ugly fence, with a ditch beyond. Breathlessly, Mr. Rolleston, who is a great lover of field sports, and longs at that moment to be outside his best hunter -- watches the pack gaining on their prey. The hounds are keeping beautifully together; seen from the hill on which the drag is standing, it seems almost as if you could cover the pack with a pocket-handkerchief. Closer and closer they press, until the fox's chance seems but a very sorry one. But Reynard is still fresh, and just as Mr. Rolleston had opened his lips to exclaim, "They will run him down, by Jove," the fox slips into the underwood of the copse, and for the moment at least is safety.

There is nothing now worth staying for. Fox, huntsmen, and hounds have all disappeared from view, either into or beyond the wood: there remain only a few stragglers, who are now striving to regain their lost ground, and are making for the brow of the hill where the fox disappeared.

Madam is cold, and anxious to get home. Her husband proposes waiting in order to see more of the fun in case the fox should break covert again; but the capricious little woman does not see it. Accordingly the grooms mount up behind again, and the horses' heads are turned homeward. By the time they had gone a couple of miles on their journey back, the clouds, which had been gathering up in soft feathery shapes during the last hour, have clustered together into a dull leaden mass, and it begins to rain. Madam thereupon descends from her high position, and gets inside the drag. The blinds are lowered, and she is settled comfortably with the windows up so that no rain can enter.

Mr. Rolleston, seated alone now on the box, gives the horses their heads, and the drag whirls along through the fast falling rain. The wind has got up, and through the skeleton trees makes wild music, which seems a sort of wail as it rushes past Mr. Rolleston's ears. Does he think, I wonder, of George? Does he think how the boy would have enjoyed the morning's drive? He had refused to bring Eric to the meet, although he had pleaded hard to accompany his father and mother. Was Mr. Rolleston, then, beginning to tire of having Eric, always Eric, brought forward; was he beginning to regret his eldest son? He is thinking of George, for these words escape his lips -- "It is unjust; I have gone too far, but I can alter it." Then, like a man who has formed a resolution, he tightens his hold upon the reins, and presses his hat closer upon his head. Meanwhile the horses are speeding on past the bare hedges and trees, down a slight hill; their blood is up, and the steam rises from their flanks. Presently it appears to Mr. Rolleston that the near leader is going lame; it is one of the hind legs; can he have a stone in his foot, or has he cut his fetlock? Mr. Rolleston stoops forward to see; he rises from the box, and leans over the splashboard. In that minute a rotten branch from an oak tree by the wayside is broken off by the wind, and borne across the road in front of the horses' heads. They swerve to one side, the carriage gives a lurch, then in a second rights itself again. But in that second the box-seat was empty. Mr. Rolleston lost his balance, fell upon the off-wheeler, clutched for an instant at his harness, then passed beneath the iron-shod hoofs; and the maddened horses went tearing on unchecked by any hand.

Mrs. Rolleston, with the window down, her hat off, her fair hair flying in the wind and rain, is calling to her husband; calling up to him on the boxseat, where she still thinks he is. The lips that have never let Madam go unanswered before are dumb now; the ears that loved to hear her voice are deaf to all earthly cries. Lying in the road, already half a mile distant from her, is a huddled heap of clothes; there is a white face, with a pair of wide-open blue eyes staring up into the leaden sky from whence the rain pours down in torrents on it.

The drag is carried on by the furious horses; strange to say, it is not overturned. Mrs. Rolleston, boxed up like a bird in a cage, gesticulates and screams; while the grooms at the back sit trembling in their seats, unable to get down. So the drag dashes into the village. Children run screaming into the cottages; women stand at their doors with uplifted hands; men turn round aghast at the flying team, the vacant box-seat, and the screams of the wretched inmate of the carriage. At this crisis the leaders suddenly free themselves from the drag, owing to the bar breaking away from its fastening to the pole. The wheelers left by themselves at once begin to feel the weight behind them; so that when John Martin, the host of the "Rolleston Arms," comes out with ostlers and others, he has no difficulty in stopping the runaways.

While Mrs. Rolleston, in hysterics, is borne into the inn parlour, where good Mrs. Martin -- the same who had been George's nurse -- is doing all she can to help her in her sore trouble, John Martin sallies forth in haste with the grooms and others in search of the poor squire. The two men who had been sitting at the back of the drag shake their heads ominously, as they think of the dark mass they had seen lying so still, far off in the middle of the road behind them. With the heavy rain beating down upon them, with the now cold gray sky overhead, through the mud and slush of the dreary winter's road, they walked, carrying a shutter on which to place the object of their search.

Only a few hours since the bright morning! Only a few minutes since the poor senseless body they had come to carry home was full of that strange mystery we call life! They lift it up gently from the mire, and place it on the shutter, treating it with that reverential awe with which death inspires us all.

CHAPTER IV.

JULIUS CAESAR, SAR.

THE day succeeding that on which the events related in the last chapter occurred, is a half-holiday with George down at Brighton, and he has wandered off by himself across the Downs to the Devil's Dyke. Months might have passed since yesterday morning, judging by the change of the temperature; it is a very cold day, and the tip of George's nose, as he trudges along towards the Dyke, testifies to the fact. Over the Downs there was fog, and the sky seemed almost black; while even the turf looked such a dull and dirty green it might have passed for black too. George scarcely met a soul the whole way there. He left the house at two o'clock, and the light, such as it had been, was already fading when he reached the lone inn, which stands just above the sloping ground of the Dyke. With his head bent, and his hands in his pockets, he walks past the inn, and stands looking at the mist which obscures the low ground beneath. He is thinking, poor fellow, of his father. Not a line had he received from any one at Rolleston Court since he left it, and now the Christmas holidays are so near, and there is the uncertainty about his spending them at home. In his unhappiness and his bitterness -- or, as his companions called it, surliness -- he preferred solitude to company. Hence his lonely walk to the Dyke.

He stands for a minute on the brow of the declivity, and is about to turn into the inn and ask for a glass of beer, when, through the fog, he sees a speck of colour approaching him. As it nears him, he perceives a little old woman, dressed in a red cloak, and leading a black dog by a string. The hood of the cloak was pulled over her head, and underneath it she wore her white cap, with a full-plaited border. George saw at once that she was an old gipsy, and he had very little doubt, was anxious to tell his fortune. When the old woman got up to him, she dropped him a curtsey, and began: -- 

"My pretty gentleman looks down into yon dark valley, as though he sought to see the future there. Come now, give old Ranah, the gipsy, a small piece of silver to cross your hand with, and a truer fortune than she'll tell you for it never was told by gipsy. I can see by your blue eyes there's luck in store for you. I tell you truly, dear. Come, let me look at the lines in your bonny hand. I'm Ranah, a true gipsy, the seventh daughter of a seventh daughter. I'm one of the gifted ones. I tell you, truly. Look now into my eyes, and tell me if I'm not a true gipsy."

George looked at the withered old face beside him, withered and yellow as parchment, and crossed and seamed with many lines; and then he looked into her eyes, as she bid him, while they looked back again at him. The old woman's eyes were not in keeping with the wrinkled face; they were bright as stars, yet dark as eyes could be.

"You don't suppose I believe in fortune-telling, and all that humbug, do you?" asked our hero. "However, I don't mind giving you a shilling."

The old woman took the shilling, which he gave her with rather a pompous air, turned it over in her hand -- so like the claw of a bird it looked -- spat upon it, and, curtseying to the boy, said, "You're freer to part with your money than many, young or old. Pity you shouldn't have plenty."

George stared at her, and said, "What do you mean? I have plenty. At least, I shall one day have plenty; my father is very rich, and I am his eldest son."

The old gipsy laughed, and showed her toothless gums, as she answered, "The first bird hatched, the first to leave the nest, the first to fly abroad. The old birds take heed for the second brood, I've always heard. There, give me your hand, and just let me tell you what luck you'll have."

George held out his hand for a minute, and the old crone glanced at it.

"There, I told you so," she said. "Your lot lies abroad; you'll cross the sea. You'll have trials to bear; I see a many crosses in your hand; yes, trials to bear, and dangers to overcome. But you will overcome them, because you'll meet them with a stout heart. And mind you remember Ranah when you're feeling beaten. Mark my words, and remember that the old gipsy told you to meet your troubles with a stout heart."

So saying, the old crone hobbled off, leaving George to his reflections.

He had scarcely seen the last of her red cloak as it disappeared in the fog, when he heard loud sounds of discord just below where he was standing; gruff tones mingled with a curious sort of chattering noise, which put him in mind of a monkey. Most of you are probably aware that the Devil's Dyke is a declivity at the south of the Downs, just where they rise suddenly from the plain; the slope is so steep that it is very difficult to walk either up or down it. George descended a few yards, until he reached a sort of natural ledge or platform a short way down the Dyke, and here he came upon a curious and startling scene.

Two rough, dirty-looking men, dressed in corduroys and fustian, were fighting and struggling with an unfortunate black man, whose dress bore as strong a contrast to that of his assailants as his strange high-pitched voice did to the gruff low tones of theirs. The negro was dressed in the very height of the last fashion, and, even at the first glance, George's notice was attracted by the bright colours in which poor Sambo had garbed himself; and he observed the blue waistcoat, with scarf to correspond, which were now spotted and stained by the dark red drops that fell from the unlucky negro's nose.

"Golly, golly, golly!" he cried; "whatever would my ole massa say? Oh!" and here he escaped from the clutches of one enemy, and made a frantic rush with his woolly head at the body of the ugliest and dirtiest of the two men, endeavouring, negro fashion, to knock the wind out of him with the hardest thing he possessed -- his own head. The man stepped aside, and the negro, shooting past him, rushed right up against George as he was advancing. Luckily the force with which he had first charged was somewhat weakened by the time he reached our hero; as it was, George staggered and nearly fell, while the negro collapsed at his feet. The poor fellow gave a shrill scream like a railway whistle, evidently supposing, at first, that he had met with a third foe; but he soon raised himself upon his knees, when he saw George's face looking down upon him.

"Sar, sar, pity, sar; help, sar; rescue, sar; a poor gentleman, sar! These big ruffians, sar, have robbed me. I am a gentleman's gentleman, sar, and by name of Julius Caesar."

George made answer, "Robbed you -- what of?"

"Sar, my watch, my gold watch, which the brigadier hab given to me, sar, as a reward for my faithful services."

Now George was indolent, and had many faults at that time; but want of pluck was never one of them. He turned to the men, and, holding up his head, stared at them with his bright blue eyes.

"Give the negro back his watch," he said, in a tone of authority.

"'Ullo, Bill!" roared the roughest, ugliest, and dirtiest-looking of the two men; "'ere's the Hemperor of Rooshia come all the way to Hingland to take Sambo's part. Let's give 'im a jolly good 'iding."

"Golly, golly," cried poor Julius Caesar, "golly, golly, golly, young gentleman, don't fight. Dese are big blaguards, sar, and hit strong, sar, berry strong."

"We are two to two," answered George; "and if you tackle one, I will the other, Master Julius Caesar. So come on."

Julius Caesar did not want a second bidding; he bent his head down again, and ran at one of the men, while George prepared to tackle, as he called it, the other. George was no novice in the art of boxing, and, although his adversary was older and heavier than he, yet, from the way he went to work, the result of the battle seemed uncertain. It was a case of science against brute force. The dark red vulgar face of the rough formed a strange contrast to that of his opponent, not less did his thick-set, awkward figure contrast with the slight, though well-knit, form of the youth. George stood waiting for his adversary's attack, resting on his right foot, in the attitude of an accomplished pugilist. On came the rough, with a vicious look in his small black eyes; George met him bravely, and blows fell thick and hard on both sides. But the rough was evidently surprised and disgusted. In this style of combat he was getting the worst of it, and he changed his manner of attack. He tried to close, and seize George in his arms, so as to get him down by superior weight and strength, and twice he made a rush at him like an infuriated bull. Each time George dodged to the side, and, with his educated right hand, dealt the ruffian, as he passed, a blow on the ear which sent him reeling. But the narrowness of the level ground was against the continued success of these tactics on George's part; and, though he had the best of it -- for he had scarcely received any damage except to his knuckles, while the ruffian's face was swollen and bleeding -- it was doubtful how the fight would have ended, when it was stopped by the appearance of two more persons on the scene.

The combatants had been too much occupied with their battle to notice a dark face which, a few minutes before, had been looking down upon them from above. Ranah, the gipsy, after leaving George, had heard the sounds of quarrelling as he had done, and curiosity led her to the spot, when the fight was just commencing. She hobbled off back to the inn as fast as her aged limbs would take her, in order to procure assistance; and speedily returned, bringing the landlord with her.

On the appearance of Ranah and the landlord of the inn, the combat ceases; but the two ruffians retire slowly and sullenly. George's enemy draws out Mr. Julius Caesar's watch from his own pocket, and, flinging it upon the ground, impudently calls out -- "Look there, yer nigger, there's yer watch yer dropped from yer pocket." Now the unhappy negro had not been so successful in the fight as George. He had been knocked down like a ninepin half a dozen times; and having picked himself up for the seventh and last time, had made a rush at his enemy, only to be received with open arms and stuck at once into chancery; where his woolly head and monkey-like face were getting severe punishment when the fight was interrupted. Then the ruffian in whose hands he was, let him drop like a limp gutta-percha black doll.

George did not receive very graciously the praises of the landlord, who was inclined to make much of the young warrior; and who would fain have obtained assistance, and been after the roughs again; but George would not have it.

"The one I took in hand got the worst of it," said he; "and Julius Caesar has got back his watch, so what's the use of making a bother."

As soon as the negro had somewhat recovered he was down on his marrowbones before our hero, and, with clasped hands, was calling down blessings on his head -- blessings which were strangely mingled with very odd bad language; for he was not sparing of his curses upon the thieves. He was in great trouble, too, at the delay the combat had caused him. "Whatebber my gentleman will tink of me, I know not," he said.

It seemed that he was the servant of an old Indian general who was ill, and was now staying at Brighton. General McDougall was anxious to see a meet of the hounds which was to be held at the Dyke in a day or two. Being an invalid, he had sent his black servant to see if the road was good enough for him to drive over, weather permitting, and also to find out if the inn was fit for him to lunch in.

George cuts short the negro's speeches, nods to the old gipsy, and, with his hat pressed down upon his head, makes across the Downs towards home. As night comes on the fog is clearing away, and the stars are beginning to shine through the sad dark garment that had obscured the sky all day. The death-like silence of a long winter's night is upon the country. It is bitterly cold, and George's homeward journey promises to be a dreary one; but he has scarcely advanced more than a quarter of a mile upon his way, when he hears sounds as of a walrus following him. Such a puffing, blowing, and snorting as the creature made he had never heard before. Turning his head in order to discover what manner of beast it might be thus travelling in his wake, he perceives the negro, whose cause he has lately so nobly taken up and fought for.

"Please, sir," snuffles poor Julius Caesar, his speech visibly affected by his temporary sojourn in chancery, "I shall be glad, sar, to accompany you to Brighton. Two can protect one another, sar; and I should be berry glad if you could visit my gentleman, sar. Perhaps you could?"

All the way back the negro's tongue wagged fast, alternately thanking and praising George, and begging him to come and see his master, that he might thank him also. Then at last he launched out into a whole account, not of his birth and parentage, for Julius was perfectly ignorant of both, but of his purchase or adoption by General McDougall. It seemed that some twenty years before the battle of the Dyke, a slaver had put in from stress of weather at St. Helena, where General McDougall then was. Sickness had broken out amongst the unlucky slaves, and Julius, who could just remember the horrible suffering of that dreadful time, was landed, one of the few who had survived the ill-treatment and sickness on board. According to his account General McDougall had bought him; nor did he seem to see anything strange in such a bargain. But whether the general bought him or not, at all events he took care of the poor little wretched black child, fed him, clothed him, christened him Julius Caesar, and made him his little servant. Then when he afterwards went to India, Julius had gone with him as his valet.

"I am the general's only body sarvent, sar," now concluded Julius Caesar, "while we are in England. My gentleman is home for tree years, and then we go out to India again. The general has been berry sick of fever, but he is getting better now. I goes eberrywhere and do eberryting for him. My ole massa berry partial to Julius Caesar."

George parted from his black friend as they entered Brighton, and he turned off towards his tutor's house, which stood on the top of the hill looking over the Downs.

He had hardly rung the bell at the hall-door when it was thrown open, and his tutor stood within the passage, holding a telegram in his hand.

CHAPTER V.

A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.

WHEN Mr. Whitfield received George at the door of the house, his face wore a sad and grave expression. He took George's hand, and led him into the study which opened out of the hall; there be broke to him as gently and considerately as possible, the intelligence of his father's death. The tutor was a good-hearted man, and it sorely grieved him to see poor George's bitter sorrow; but I will not dwell upon that sad interview. The telegram which brought the news was not sent by Mrs. Rolleston, nor by her direction; it was Eric's tutor, to whom at last, after four and twenty hours had elapsed, it occurred that the eldest son ought to be apprised of Mr. Rolleston's sudden death.

There is no need for George to start for home that night; better let him rest and do the journey next morning. Mr. Whitfield knows well that there is no one at home who will lighten the boy's grief by sympathy, nor any one who will find consolation in the sight of him. So it was agreed that he should start the next morning; and he went up to his little bedroom in his tutor's house, to be alone with his sorrow. Poor fellow! how his heart was aching on that cold December evening, as he sat, all in the dark, his arms resting on the window-sill, looking out upon the Downs and the sky. The moon was up, but across her pale face flitted angry clouds, chasing each other madly through the winter's night; hurrying on, driven by the cruel wind, which howled and bellowed in their wake. George sat looking upwards, thinking of his father; of the last parting from him; of his last angry words: -- "Never let me see your face again, sir." And as the words seem again to ring in the lad's ears, he buries his face upon his arms and sobs. Then he begins to wonder how the accident occurred, for the telegram had given only the bare fact, "killed by falling from his drag." He fancied it might have happened first in one way, then in another, always picturing the scene to himself so vividly, that he suffered all the horrors of the sight as if it had been real.

Mr. and Mrs. Whitfield came to him presently to try and comfort him. They had not remarked upon his late return from his walk, for their thoughts had been too much occupied with the terrible contents of the telegram; but when Mrs. Whitfield brought a light into his bedroom, and sat down beside him, she saw how his face was cut and bruised, and questioned him about it. George, in few words, told her of his fight with the roughs in the cause of Julius Caesar. Bitter as the trouble was that had come upon him, yet when he called to mind the appearance of the negro, and described him to Mrs. Whitfield, his face brightened for the moment, and he smiled. The little woman, seeing it, was glad, and drew him on, and applauded him for his courage, though at another time she would have blamed him for getting into a fight at all. But soon turning from the day's exploit to his great sorrow, he began telling her of all his trouble, and of the great gnawing pain he felt at his heart, to think that his father had gone away for ever, and his last words to him had been so bitter.

"I believe my father would have forgiven me long ago," the lad sighed, "if it had not been for Madam. Ah! she hates me, and Eric does, too."

Mrs. Whitfield talked a long time to George, and got him to take some meat and wine before she left him; and George kissed her, and thanked her for her goodness to him. When she joined her husband downstairs, she said, "Well, I never liked young Rolleston until to-night; he always seemed so purse-proud and stuck up; but he is grieving terribly about his father, and I am so sorry for him. It seems that Mr. Rolleston never forgave him for striking that horrid little boy, his brother."

The next morning George's soft mood seemed to have passed away, he was very pale and silent when he came downstairs and took his early breakfast with his tutor. They were alone: George saw none of his fellow-pupils that morning; and at nine o'clock a fly drove up to the door to bear him to the station. The railway carriage was filled all the way to town with men going up to their day's work -- lawyers, stockbrokers, merchants, and in the opposite seat to George sat a portly gentleman, who proved from his conversation to be a coroner. Unfortunately for poor George, considering his thoughts at the time, this man amused himself and some of his fellow-travellers by describing curious cases of death from suicide and accident, which had come under his notice; but all in a cheery, jocular way, that made George sick as he listened. He summed up by informing the company with an air of importance that he had before now sat upon as many as a dozen bodies in a day. Then apparently having exhausted his subject, he subsided into silence; and with pursed-up mouth and puffed-out cheeks, thrust his thumbs in the pockets of his capacious waistcoat, and drummed upon it with his fingers during the remainder of the journey. As George passed through the London streets going from one station to the other, the snow began to fall, and the streets looked empty and melancholy, while the few people who were passing in them had pinched-up faces and red noses. Everything seemed to George as dreary and sad as possible, and he was glad when he reached Paddington, and got settled in the corner of a first-class carriage, rolled up in his railway rug. This time he congratulated himself that he was alone, and would be able undisturbed to think upon his sorrow; no chattering coroner to trouble him; no busy City men to discuss the price of stocks. With a loud, shrill whistle the train steals out of the station; then hurries on faster and faster, rushing madly along, speeding through the dreary winter's landscape.

After a little while George lets down the window, and looks out upon the white world. He is breathing into his young lungs the fresh frosty air, and getting his nose nipped, and his eyelashes thickened with snow, when suddenly he hears a tapping at the door which divides the carriage into two compartments. You must know that the first-class carriages on the Great Western line used to be constructed with a partition in the middle, so as to separate the four seats nearest to one door from the four seats near the other; this partition opening with a door, of which the upper part was glass. The tapping heard by George was upon this partition; and turning quickly, he perceives a round, red face peering at him through the glass of the upper part of the door; a round face with a round nose set in the middle, and a pair of bright, round, hazel eyes, which are fixed upon him. Presently the door opens and a sleek bullet head, covered with short, thick, black hair, is thrust into George's compartment; it is soon followed by a fat, round body, supported on short, thick legs. These short, round, thick, and sleek items make up a youth somewhere about the same age as George Rolleston. The youth, advancing into George's division, gave a curious sort of grin, in which his eyes, and one eye in particular, had as much share as his mouth. Indeed, the way that left eye of his sparkled and beamed with merriment by itself, was quite enough, even if the rest of the face had kept as grave as any judge's, to make you laugh from sympathy.

"I hope I don't intrude," began the intruder. "I should take my hat off and make you a bow, if I hadn't left it in the other side; but you haven't a few crumbs about you, have you now?

Crumbs of biscuit, or of a sandwich, hey? Half a dozen flies would do instead, but at this season of the year they are not to be had, you see."

George, not being in the humour to be amused or think anything funny, was about to answer sharply that he had no crumbs, nor anything of the kind; and was also going to turn away to look out again upon the snow, which was now falling thickly all around, when the stout youth, holding out his hand in a pseudo-theatrical manner, exclaimed -- 

"It is not for myself I beg, but for a much-prized child, who, I am sure, is hungry." And he held up a small glass bowl, resembling a finger-glass, covered at the top with paper, in which George beheld a large and bloated-looking toad.

George's face certainly did not wear the look of pleased surprise which seemed to be expected by the fat boy. Our hero merely gave vent to a loud "Augh!" of disgust.

"This is Thomas," proceeded the interloper. "Thomas, the Toad; christened after Thomas, the Man -- meaning me: my name is Thomas Burton. Those most familiar with me sometimes address me as Tommy; but no one ventures on this familiarity with Thomas, the Toad -- Thomas, the bright-eyed -- Thomas, the knowing."

As he said these words, he took the toad out of its bowl, and let it squat in his hand, where it remained, visibly swelling, and its bright eyes shining like jewels. George made a gesture of annoyance as this queer boy held out a not over clean and very chilblainy hand, graced by the presence of the nasty-looking creature.

"Ah!" said Thomas Burton, with a sigh, "you are evidently not a naturalist; you have no soul for the beauties of nature. Now, it's my delight on a shiny night to search for these, and such as these. Why, I've four snakes at home; lots of efts and frogs, and heaps of warmblooded beasts. I've got a monkey, called Janet; ever so many dogs, and ferrets without number. In a year or two I'm going out to India, and I shall have to leave a good many of my lot behind me; and the bother is that my sister, with the perversity of her sex, declares she won't look after the toad or the snakes. She's very good to Janet and the dogs; but I'm obliged to have a boy from the village to look after the other things, when I'm at school."

George made no answer to him, and the boy was about to rattle on, when the train began to slacken its pace; then Thomas Burton put up his toad, and looking more attentively at George, said -- 

"You look rather white in the gills; I hope you're not seedy -- just recovering from fever, or anything? Or has Thomas been too much for you?"

The tears he could not keep down rushed up to George's eyes, as he answered -- 

"I'm well; but I have heard bad news. I have heard of the death of my father."

Thomas Burton's red face grew redder as he stammered out -- 

"I beg your pardon. What a beast you must have thought me! Though, of course, you know, I couldn't know. I'm sure I wouldn't have bothered you for anything if I had guessed about your trouble. But I am always putting my foot in it somehow."

With these words our new friend retreated into his compartment, and shut the door.

George muttered, "Never mind," or something to that effect, and drawing up the window, settled himself back in his corner. The train stopped, and through the gloom of the winter's evening appeared the cheerful lighted-up station. Plenty of people standing about upon the platform; some boys among them, too, already going home for Christmas -- and regular Christmas weather it was for them. There were three or four chubby urchins, among the rest, of some ten or twelve years old, with comforters round their throats, hands in their pockets, red, jovial faces, and sparkling happy eyes, looking forward -- because looking back to many a merry Christmas past -- to a rare glad time now. Visions were no doubt passing before their eyes of the roast turkey, plum-pudding, and mince pies; already, in imagination, they saw the chestnuts roasting on the hearth, the piles of golden oranges, the cakes -- but here their imaginations might perhaps lead them on painfully far, and a vision might rise up of a pill or powder to follow in the wake of all the goodly things. So they would turn their thoughts to all the games they had last Christmas; and George could hear their cheery laughter as they recalled the fun and merriment of the past year. Here and there he saw older and wiser people on the platform; but all wore the same look upon their faces -- a look that told of happy homes or cheerful visits; and, more than all, that Christmas-time was coming.

George sighed heavily as he thought of his going home. He was tired, too, and had hardly recovered the bruises he had received the day before upon the Dyke. It seemed so strange to him to think that the encounter with the thieves had only happened yesterday; so much sorrow, such a change, had come upon him since. There was still an hour of railway travelling before him ere he would reach the Faringdon station, where his journey ended; and then would come a ten miles' drive, then home. That home, where not only would he find no welcome or sympathy, but where there now reigned a master so terrible -- the master of us all; and George felt a certain dread, that I think all the young must feel, at the thought of sharing the same roof with Death.

George's reflections were undisturbed by either the toad or its owner, who apparently were sound asleep. The train had left the friendly cover of the station, and was tearing through the open country, with its hoarse, panting noise, scattering sparks upon the snow, and casting its lurid light, like a stain of blood, upon the earth's white breast. George nestled in his corner, where at last, in spite of his sad thoughts, he gradually and unconsciously dozed off to sleep.

CHAPTER VI.

FIRE.

GEORGE had not been sleeping for above half an hour in the corner of the railway carriage, when he was disturbed for a second time by Thomas Burton.

"Sorry to wake you, old fellow," said our new acquaintance; "but the fact is, we shall be smothered if we don't look out."

George opened his eyes, and found to his astonishment that their carriage was full of smoke. His fellow-traveller was letting down the window while speaking, and this soon relieved them of the smoke so far that they were able to search about a little, and they discovered that it was issuing from under the seat opposite to where George was sitting. Then looking out, they perceived that next to them was a luggage-van, forming part of the same block with their own carriage. Evidently the fire was in this van; smoke could be seen oozing out round the edges of the closed door, and it must have found its way into their carriage through some crevice in the wooden partition which alone separated them from the van. What was to be done?

"I tell you what it is," remarked Thomas, "unless we can communicate with the guard, we are gone coons. I should find a little warmth very agreeable just now, but I don't relish the idea of being roasted alive in a railway carriage. My time is not come yet for this sort of thing; I am too young and fair to die. So here goes."

Putting his head as far out of the window as he could, he shouted at the top of his voice. George followed his example from the other window. Both boys yelled as loud as they could, but to no purpose; there was no sign that they were heard by any one. As Tom Burton said, "One would think they were all luggage." They now tried to open the doors, but found them both locked. George Rolleston and Thomas Burton gazed upon one another with perplexed and alarmed faces. The smoke was getting thicker every minute, and, on putting their ears against the side of the van, they heard, or fancied they heard, the crackling of burning wood beyond it. Thomas Burton gave a low whistle, but his love of chattering did not seem affected by the sense of danger, and he said -- 

"I tell you what it is, old boy, we must manage to get out of our box without the help of keys. If the Lord Bishop of Oxford was here -- now I belong to his Lordship's diocese, you see, that is, my father, who is a parson, does -- and his Lordship was to say, 'Mr. Thomas Burton, favour me by informing me what you would do if you were locked up in a burning railway carriage, and had no means of opening the door;' I should answer, I should say, 'Why, my Lord Bishop, get out of the window and into another carriage, if I could;' and what I should say to the Lord Bishop I say to you now, my new friend, and I make the little addition, let us get out as quickly as we can."

Suiting the action to the word, he stood on the seat, and was about to put one leg out of the window when George stopped him.

"Look here," said our hero; "I'm bigger and stronger than you are; you stay here, there will be no danger for a few minutes longer, and let me get out of the window, make my way to the engine, and get the driver to stop. We are very near the engine, and I can walk upon the footboard that runs along the train; I've often seen the guards and porters do it."

Thomas Burton hesitated a moment, and then answered -- 

"A bright idea of yours to make for the engine, but you shall not go alone, at any rate; if one goes the other shall. Here, hold on to my collar just to steady me, and don't you let go till I hallo out."

George took a firm grip of this strange youth's jacket collar, and Thomas Burton slipped out of the window on to the foot-board; when there, it was all he could do to steady himself, and the snow beat against his face almost blinding him. He kept hold of the wood-work of the window for a moment, then passed slowly on towards the next carriage. George now slipped out of the window after him; his long legs were waving about for a second or two, before they found the footing for them to rest upon; then he steadied himself as Thomas had done, and the two boys started on their perilous journey.

The wind whistled shrilly in their ears as the train flew along -- a biting, cold wind, that seemed to cut them as it passed, and took their breath away. The inmates of the first carriage they came to were settled, wrapped up cosy and warm, comfortably unconscious of the two lads whose faces were for the moment pressed against the glass outside. The second carriage that our boys looked into contained a family of children; fat, rosy faces gleamed bright beneath the carriage lamp; two little girls in red hoods, from under which strayed curls of shiny warm brown hair, were pressing chubby hands against the window to wipe away the steam that obscured their view -- of what? The night was dark as pitch; but as they flattened their little noses against the glass, a loud cry broke from the rosy lips; for George's pale face met them on the other side. "A ghost, a ghost!" cried the children. The elders of the party laughed, and looked, and saw nothing but the dark night and the white snow lying on the ground. Past the carriages the boys glided on until they reached the coal-tender, when the engine-driver and stoker both caught sight of them. The latter, with open mouth and eyes of astonishment, came forward to help them, and they were soon in safety on the little platform of the engine. Then the stoker exclaimed, in a voice which sounded as if he were fed upon cinders -- 

"Why, Sam, this 'ere's a pretty start." Then turning to the boys, for his first observation was addressed to the engine-driver -- "Lor," said he, "what hever do bring you young gentlemen here? you might a lost yer precious lives."

George found some difficulty in making himself heard, but contrived to explain the cause of their unexpected appearance, which considerably surprised and alarmed the driver.

"But," said he, "we are a-coming to a station in another mile, when we'll henquire hinto the mischief. We could 'ardly pull up sooner if we was to try."

So the two lads stayed where they were. The driver drove, and the stoker stoked, but not another word passed the lips of any of the four. The situation was not favourable for talking or for listening. bending great trees with its force, and visiting village homes, where it made the cherry lips and cheeks of peasant maidens smart with its rough kisses; or rushing down cottage chimneys, it blew the smoke into the old folks' eyes: then off to towns, and rioting with chimney pots and steeples, made such havoc in that night as it took days to remedy.

Tom the boy had not forgotten Tom the toad in the hour of peril and excitement. On leaving the railway carriage he had transferred his coldblooded pet from the glass bowl to his pocket; and as the boys stood side by side on the engine platform, he produced him again with an air of triumph. But in his foolish pride he placed Tom the toad on his shoulder, and inviting George by signs to watch how well the beast could understand, held out his arm and bid Thomas walk down it to his hand. The toad puffed out his fat body, and slowly began his journey; when, as ill-luck would have it, a gust of wind with sudden fury cut short poor Tommy's walk, catching him up so quickly that his master had no time to save him, and he was whirled off into the darkness. He was gone for ever. No hope of Thomas the boy and Thomas the toad ever being reunited! And then the wind, having accomplished this piece of mischief, seemed to acquire a taste that way, and growing more riotous every instant, resolved to make a night of it. First, it went careering over the country,

Tom Burton had no time to think about his loss before they were stepping off the engine on to the platform of the station. By this time thick volumes of smoke were issuing from the luggage van as well as from the carriage that the boys had left; and the moment the door of the van was opened flames burst forth. Luckily at this station was a tank for the supply of water to the engines; the hose was ready, and a stream of water, directed upon the flames, extinguished them in a few moments. Then the luggage, such as was not burnt but only wetted, was moved to another van; the damaged carriages were shunted off the line, and after a delay of about ten minutes, the boys were seated in another carriage and continuing their journey. How the fire originated remained a mystery; a spark might have fallen from the lantern of a porter when putting luggage into the van, or taking it out; or possibly in the luggage itself there may have been some material that could ignite spontaneously; for instance, lucifers such as do not light only on the box. home. Poor George! what a longing came upon him for home love -- for a father's care and a mother's tenderness. He felt that he was alone in the world, and thought that he should be happy even in such a home as he had just had a glimpse of, for the sake of being welcomed like that boy.

This little adventure, the danger they had shared together, and a certain esteem which each felt for the other's pluck and coolness, made the boys feel like old friends at once; and George's usual reserve evaporated entirely. Arriving at Faringdon, they discovered that both alighted at the same station; and a few words of explanation showed that they were neighbours. Tom Burton's father was the rector of a place about three or four miles from Rolleston Court, and he well knew the Rolleston family by name. The boys parted, making many promises to see each other again after the warm and open-hearted fashion of youth; and the friendship so curiously began, had an influence, as we shall see, upon George's after life. Tommy Burton went off in a fly to his father's rectory, while George found old William the coachman waiting for him with the brougham.

"Not as Madam sent it for you, Master George, leastwise, Mr. Rolleston, I should say," began William. "But, lor, I made so bold as to bring it down myself. I thought as how you'd be a-coming by this train."

While he spoke the water was flowing from his eyes, down his weather-beaten cheeks: his poor old addled head seemed a perfect reservoir, and he kept poking the fingers of his black gloves, which he had already supplied himself with, into his eyes to stem the torrent as he stood beside the horses' heads. George waited to speak to the old man before getting into the brougham, with the snow falling on him. In a hoarse voice he asked: -- 

"How did it happen, William? it is so sudden, I can scarcely believe it now."

The old coachman, in simple words, interrupted by tears, told him then the story, as we know it, of Mr. Rolleston's death. The snow itself was scarcely whiter than George's face as he listened; and when he got into the brougham and sat alone there, he covered his face with his hands, and gave way to a great burst of crying.

The horses sped along noiselessly over the snowy ground; all was white upon the earth, all darkness over head. Lights shining here and there through the snow-laden branches of the trees, told of cottage homes. At one open door, from which there flashed the gleams of the bright fire within, he could see the outline of a woman's figure, with her apron over her head. One hand shaded her eyes as she looked out upon the blinding snow; and with the other she kept back within the light and warmth of the cottage a little urchin of some ten years old.

Just as George drove past, he saw a clumsy hobbledehoy, with shambling gait, trudge up the little pathway of the garden leading to the cottage. When the woman caught sight of him, she dropped her hand, let fall the apron from her head, and ran out to meet her son; while the smaller boy, no longer held back within the door, came jumping out into the snow. As George leaned forward to see the last of them, he observed the brothers, talking and laughing cheerily together, sit down between the fire and a little table spread with a white cloth for supper. Then the mother closed the door, and shut out from him the view of this simple, happy home. Poor George! what a longing came upon him for home love -- for a father's care and a mother's tenderness. He felt that he was alone in the world, and thought that he should be happy even in such a home as he had just had a glimpse of, for the sake of being welcomed like that boy.

Soon the brougham whirled past the village inn at Bymaston, whence, only two days since, men had gone forth to bring back home the poor dead squire. How can it look so bright and warm? how can its windows throw such cheerful light upon the road beyond? And now the lodge is passed, and the horses trot briskly up the avenue, and George's heart sinks within him, as old William pulls up at the porch. The great hall was dimly lighted, and a wood-fire was smouldering on the dogs in the fireplace. George looked round upon the mail-clad figures, keeping their perpetual watch and ward over the outgoers and incomers of the dead man's house, all motionless as he is now. George thought how still the whole place seemed, and a feeling, half of awe, half fear, came over him as he stood there in the hall. The footman, who had let him in, disturbed his thoughts by opening the door of the breakfast-room, where the supper was ready; but even he spoke in a subdued voice as he said -- 

"It is nearly nine, sir. Will you have supper at once? Mrs. Rolleston is not able to leave her room, and Master Eric is gone to bed."

"I don't care," answered George. "Yes, though," he added, "I suppose I had better have something."

So, seated there alone, he ate and drank, for he was sick and faint for want of food, not having eaten anything since morning. In a little while Eric's tutor came in, and after a few commonplace phrases of condolence, gave George over again, but in different words, much the same account of his father's accident and death, as William the coachman had given before. A kind-hearted man was this tutor, but he was almost a stranger to the boy, and his conversation was not very comforting. George soon rose wearily to go upstairs to his own room. Up the great oak staircase he went, and along the gallery above, past the door where Mr. Rolleston lay, treading as softly as if it were illness there, not death, and he were fearful a loud step might trouble the wakeful ear of sickness. Once in his own room, he sat down on the bed, and his heart felt, oh! so heavy, as he remembered that it was in this room he had received the letter with that offer of forgiveness which he had rejected. He would have given all the world now if he could have remembered his father apart from that scene which had taken place the last day he was at home.

As George knelt down that night to say his usual prayers -- those prayers which, like I am afraid too many of you boys, fell so often merely mechanically from his lips -- he lifted up his voice to God with a very earnest prayer, which came straight from his young heart, now burdened with its first great sorrow. He prayed in words which rushed spontaneously to his lips, that it might be permitted to his father to know his bitter repentance, his intense grief.

CHAPTER VII.

A SAD CHAPTER.

THREE days passed after George's return to Rolleston Court before he saw his stepmother. She stayed upstairs in her boudoir, where Eric alone had entrance; and he remained almost always with her. A solemn gloom was upon the house and all its inmates. George sat in his room, or wandered about the grounds in solitude; two or three times only during those days he met Eric, who had a sulky manner towards him, and would hardly speak. On the evening of the third day -- the day before the funeral -- Mrs. Rolleston came downstairs to dinner, and, for the first time since her widowhood, the stepmother and son met. When Madam appeared in the drawing-room, dressed in her weeds, pale and sad-looking, George's heart softened towards her, and he went up intending to kiss her. But she merely held out her hand, and spoke to him in a cold, measured tone of voice, which checked completely all effort on his part at cordiality. After all he was only a boy, and could but take his cue from others.

Mrs. Rolleston took the head of the table; a place was laid at the bottom and one at the side; the tutor was gone to town, to remain until after the funeral. George was about to seat himself in his father's place, when his stepmother called out in a stern voice, "Not there, George; your place will never be there."

George rose and said nothing, but when Eric was about to take the bottom of the table, he put his hand on his brother's shoulder, saying -- 

"If I do not take my father's place, nobody else shall. I have a right to it."

Mrs. Rolleston exclaimed, in a bitter tone -- "Like you always; even on this night you must needs make a disturbance in the house. And let me tell you that Eric has the most right there of the two, as you will see; let him then remain in the place he has taken."

George made no reply, but by a violent effort kept back the angry words that were on his lips, as well as the tears of mortification which rose to his eyes. He quietly left the room. Boy as he was, and angry as he felt, he still resolved that it should not be his fault if there was strife in the house. But when he was up in his own room, Mrs. Rolleston's words kept ringing in his ears -- "Eric has the most right there of the two, as you will see." What could she mean? Was he not the eldest son? and. therefore surely ought to take his father's place.

In justice to George it must be said that, since his father's death, the thought that he would inherit the estate had never once occurred to him as a source of consolation. The thought used often to be present to his mind before, and he had been accustomed to cherish it as a solace to his wounded pride when he was snubbed and slighted by his stepmother. He had, in fact, cherished this sense of his own importance as the heir till it had become, as we know, the great fault in his character. But since he heard of his father's death, his grief had been too intense to admit the idea of any advantage coming to himself from that event: such grief as he felt is purifying, and cannot be associated with selfish feelings. Now, however, Mrs. Rolleston's words led him to think for the first time how the death of his father affected his own position. That he should inherit the estate seemed too much in the natural course of things, for a doubt upon that point to enter his mind. He puzzled for a long time over the meaning of her words, but could make nothing of them; and at last came to the conclusion that she probably had only said what she did for the sake of mortifying him.

The next morning dawned cloudy and dull. A good deal of snow still lay upon the ground, but the great bare branches of the trees in the avenue were no longer graced by the white winter coating they had been lately wearing; and in the middle of the road, here and there, the earth's dark face looked out through the snow to watch the work going on upon its surface. Slowly, along the avenue, in solemn state, passes the funeral procession, bearing the late master of Rolleston Court away from its sheltering walls to the cold new vault in Bymaston Churchyard. The mourners were not numerous; Mr. Rolleston had neither father nor mother, brother nor sister living, and the more distant branches of his family lived principally in the north of England. Besides his own two sons, the only mourners on his side the house were two cousins from London; one of whom -- Miles Rolleston -- was a barrister of high standing and large practice. There was also present an uncle of Mrs. Rolleston, and there was the family solicitor. These were the only mourners who followed in the procession; though many of the tenants assembled in the churchyard, either from curiosity or to show respect to their late landlord. During the solemn service Eric received more sympathy from the bystanders on account of the loudness of his sobs and his tear-stained face, while George felt as if he were in some horrid dream, and stood there with tearless eyes and pale still face, uttering no sound. It was all soon over, and the pomp of hearse and carriages and nodding plumes passed away again from before the wondering and admiring eyes of the villagers of Bymaston.

The mourners from the funeral are re-assembled at Rolleston Court. Mrs. Rolleston and Eric, and her uncle, are in the breakfast-room, talking together; the uncle is a fat, elderly gentleman, who need not be particularly described, as we shall not meet with him in this narrative again. The two cousins are standing by the fireplace in the great hall; they are almost strangers to George, who is there also. From time to time they address a few words to him, or to each other; but there is a gloom and coldness over the place and over them all, which seem to freeze the words as they rise upon their lips. One cousin is tall, the other short; they are not brothers, but first cousins to each other. The short one is a Scotchman; he is named Maguire, and has a large red head, with a long red beard, and a slow way of talking. The other -- Miles Rolleston, the barrister -- has a fat, round face, and features that look as if they had been pinched up out of putty. But, though he is no beauty, there is an expression of intellect and power in the face, and he has, as we shall see, a kindly nature. His profession brings much money into his pocket; but if much goes in almost more goes out, for he married young, and is the father of a dozen children. He stands now warming his hands over the flame which rises from the wood upon the iron dogs. He is looking at George, who has turned away from the fire, and seems to be gazing out upon the dreary landscape from the deep recess of one of the windows.

Presently the solicitor, Mr. Haynes, a weak-eyed little man, with a feeble voice, comes tripping up to the cousins, and whispers -- 

"We are quite ready, gentlemen; quite ready now -- ahem -- to read the will. Would you have the kindness to step this way?" Then, addressing George, "Young gentleman, come, if you please."

The two cousins and George follow Mr. Haynes into the breakfast-room. Mrs. Rolleston is seated already near the fire, with her uncle and Eric. The others take their places in silence, while Mr. Haynes seats himself at the table, and produces a large sealed envelope, which he explains to have been found in Mr. Rolleston's escritoire, and that the writing on the outside states it to be the last will and testament of that gentleman. He then opens it, and reads aloud.

The will was very simple, and the disposition of the property just what might have been expected. The estate was bequeathed to the eldest son, subject to a large annuity, or rentcharge, for the widow, which had, in fact, already been given under the marriage settlement. Five thousand pounds were bequeathed to Eric, as a younger son's portion; and there were besides, some small legacies -- among others, one to Miles Rolleston. He and Mrs. Rolleston were appointed executor and executrix of the will, and trustees and guardians of the boys, in case they should be under age at the time of the testator's death. Then came the date, with the signature of Mr. Rolleston, and those of the witnesses; and the reading ceased.

Apparently the reading of the will was over; but Mr. Haynes kept his eyes still fixed upon the paper with strange intentness. At last he said -- 

"Here is a codicil, I perceive, and of quite a recent date." And, while he spoke, he was evidently reading it over rapidly to himself, with an expression of great surprise upon his face.

When he raised his eyes, it was to look at Mrs. Rolleston; who, sitting there with the tears trickling gently down her cheeks, turned suddenly as red as fire. He then addressed himself to Miles Rolleston, saying, with an air of perplexity, -- 

"I drew up this will for Mr. Rolleston some time ago; but here, my dear sir, is a most important codicil, which has been added quite lately -- dated, in fact, only the thirteenth of last month. I think it is in the testator's own handwriting, and seems to be formal and valid; but it makes a most singular change in the disposition of the property. However, I suppose I had better read it out."

Miles Rolleston, thus appealed to, asked in reply, "Is any reason for the change assigned in the codicil itself?"

As he spoke, he got up and looked over the solicitor's shoulder, while the latter read the codicil.

It consisted of only a few lines, but its effect was to exactly reverse the position of the two boys. It declared that everything which had been bequeathed in the will to George was to go to Eric instead; while the five thousand pounds at first given to Eric, as a younger son, was by the codicil bequeathed to George. No reason was assigned for this change, and no other part of the will was altered.

George had attended listlessly to the reading of the will itself. He just gathered the meaning of the words, and found that everything was left very much in the way that he had expected, as a matter of course, it would be. But when there was a pause, and the codicil was spoken of, he prepared to listen with eager interest. His first feeling after it was read was not so much one of dismay at the difference it would make to him, as a thought how dreadfully offended and angry his father must have been to inflict such a punishment upon him. Then the words of Mrs. Rolleston the evening before flashed across his memory. Here was their explanation. She knew of it then, and it was no doubt her doing. He glanced round the room, and he read in the expression of every face the same conviction that was in his own mind: that this codicil had been her doing, not Mr. Rolleston's spontaneous act. And in this conviction he found at the moment a sort of consolation. Anything was better than to think that his father would not have forgiven him, and he murmured to himself, "I am sure she persuaded him to do this; I do believe he loved me always better than Eric."

This train of thought passed through his mind in less time than it takes to describe it. Then he became conscious that every one was looking at him, and he longed to be alone; but he felt stunned as if by a blow, and staggered as he got up to leave the room. When he rose, the gentlemen who were present all came up to him, speaking kindly, taking his hand, and with more or less warmth expressing their surprise and regret. They bade him bear it like a man, and so on. George muttered indistinctly some words of thanks. At last Mrs. Rolleston, ashamed at being alone silent, led Eric by the hand up to his brother, bidding George not to be unhappy, and saying that Rolleston Court should always be his home, as if his father were still alive. The bitterness of George's trouble increased tenfold, as her words reminded him that he was dependent upon her or Eric even for a home. He could not speak, and rushed out of the room.

"I dare not follow him, nor let Eric," said Mrs. Rolleston. "You have no idea of that boy's violence; it used to make his poor father so miserable."

Tears were in her eyes as she made this little speech, but the sympathies of the bystanders were with George. No one seemed to know how to reply, or what to do. Fortunately, it was soon time for the gentlemen to adjourn to the dining-room to lunch, as all but Mrs. Rolleston's uncle had to return to town that afternoon. She did not lunch with them, and they bade adieu with some restraint and coldness. George did not make his appearance at lunch, and when Miles Rolleston, before starting, sent to inquire for the lad, he was not to be found. One of the servants, it was said, had seen him go out.

Meanwhile, poor George was walking down the avenue -- that avenue where so lately the funeral had passed, and where also we first saw him, three months ago, sauntering lazily, while his bag of game and his gun were carried by a keeper after him. A very different boy he looks now, poor lad! as in deep mourning and with pale face he walks quickly along. Out on the open road, he turns in the direction of the village, and, with head bent down and hands in his pockets, faces the snow which had just begun to fall. A mile and more he walked, and then he neared the village inn, the Rolleston Arms. In summer time the road-side inn looked cheerful and inviting enough, with its old giant oak sheltering it from the noonday sun; but now the branches of the oak were bare, the seat which encircled its capacious trunk was empty, and the sign-board creaked as it swung in the wind. The horse-trough was full of ice and snow instead of water, and there was no sign of man or beast about the place as George stood upon the threshold. You boys who read this now, do not laugh at George because, great boy of fifteen as he was, he yet instinctively turned to his old nurse for comfort when he found himself friendless and fortuneless. It was to Mrs. Martin, the wife of the host of the Rolleston Arms, that George was now making his way. Nora Sullivan, as she was named when she was George's nurse, was just as devoted to him and his interests now that she was Mrs. Martin, as she had been when he was a little boy, and she had to take his part against any injustice of Madam. So, though lately George had rather snubbed poor Nora Martin, when she had shown herself over affectionate, and inclined to take him to her heart with Irish warmth of manner, and he had specially forbidden her for some time past to kiss him, our unhappy hero now sought his old nurse, to confide to her his grief and terrible disappointment.

Although the Rolleston Arms looked cheerless and comfortless without, it was not so within. Facing the entrance was the bar, with a good stock of bottles ranged on shelves, shining pewter pots, and glasses.

Beyond, might be seen a well-stocked larder, with glass doors, showing within a store of such fare as bore witness to the time of year: a turkey hanging up, a noble joint of beef, and mince pies ranged in rows upon a dish. To the right of the passage, the parlour-door was open, where a bright fire crackled and sparkled, rose and fell; the crimson curtains glowed, and seemed to catch the warmth and throw it back again into the room, for fear some should escape and wander out into the now darkling winter's afternoon. Some of the light and warmth, though, did escape, and glanced across the passage upon the pots and mugs and glasses in the bar, and made a cheerful glow there, too.

George stood hesitating at the inn-door, uncertain whether to take himself and his troubles back again, or to call out for his old nurse. While he was deliberating, feeling so sick at heart, yet rather dreading Mrs. Martin's demonstrations, he heard a step upon the stairs: -- a heavy step, which soon came into the passage, and Mrs. Martin stood before him.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE ROLLESTON ARMS.

NORA MARTIN'S frame, like her heart, was very large. Round and comfortable in figure, there was not a sharp point about her; outwardly, that is to say only, for her wits did not belie her country. She was clad in a handsome black silk dress and white apron, for she wore mourning for her late master. Her plump, good-tempered face, brightened up by large gray Irish eyes, and set in a framework of curling black hair, with a line of silver here and there, presented a pleasant and comforting sight to George. Her very cap, though decked with black ribbons, yet, constructed by her and worn by her, had in some strange way gained so much of her individual character (as caps and other garments do somehow gain the individual characters of their wearers), that it looked a comfortable, cheery, well-meaning head-gear even when off Nora's head; but when the merry Irish face shone out beneath it, no cap in all England -- no, nor "ould Ireland" either -- could match it for good-natured seeming and comely grace. In a good rich brogue, which Nora had not lost in all her years of service or of marriage in England, she cried -- 

"Och! Master Garge, dear, shure it would never be yerself, futting it through the snow and wind all the way fro' the big house. Whatever luck has made yer come?"

"Oh, Nora!" replied George, "I'm very miserable;" -- and then he could get no further.

"Here, darlint," said his nurse; "come in out av the cowld; and warm yer pore hands and feet a bit, and then tell Nora what ails ye."

Mrs. Martin led George into the bright little parlour, and giving the fire a good poke, which caused it to flicker its merry light on everything about the room, she made our poor sad boy sit down and tell her of his trouble.

When he had done so in as few words as possible, she cried -- 

"Fwhat! Did ye tell me, thin, as yer own father's been after disinheriting of ye, Master Garge? Shure it's Madam's doings, and bad scan to her for that same. Och! And to think that I should iver live to see the day that me bhoy should be turnt out av his own house and home. Och, wurra, wurra me!" Mrs. Martin took up her white apron, and threw it over her face as she rocked herself to and fro, crying bitterly.

"You know, Nora," said George, "I can live at the Court, if I choose; but I do not choose, and I do not feel as if I could ever go back there again. I suppose they can't make me."

Nora pulled her apron off her head, and exclaimed, "Av coorse he don't chuse, av coorse he don't. Where'ud his pride be to think av living there now the place is taken from him? Oh, Master Garge, dear, but it's bad heering, intoirely." After a few more such lamentations, good Mrs. Martin bethought herself that this was not the right way to comfort or encourage George, and enable him to bear the ill-fortune which had befallen him. So, rising, and straightening her cap and tidying her hair before the looking-glass over the chimney-piece, she went to a chiffonier which stood near the window and took therefrom a decanter and wine-glass. She made George drink the wine that she poured out for him, and, laying her hand upon his shoulder, said -- 

"But, Master Garge, dear, thry and bear it bravely. With a stout heart, darlint, meet yer throuble; and by the blessin' av God ye'll git through it well."

As Nora uttered these words George thought of the old gipsy at the Devil's Dyke. Had not she used much the same words as Nora was using now? Strange, that while she was foretelling trials and misfortunes for him, she should have bid him, like Nora, bear them with a brave heart -- with a stout heart. George was not superstitious, and did not believe that the gipsy had a gift of prophecy; but he remembered how, on giving her the shilling, he had told her of his father's wealth, and of his own fine prospects; and he thought now that perhaps, when she foretold his misfortune, she had meant to teach him the folly of such boasting.

George covered his face with his hands and groaned when he remembered that at the very time he talked in that way to the gipsy at the Dyke, his father was lying dead, and he was himself disinherited. It was with a face wearing a very different expression from the one Nora was accustomed to see, that George looked up at her and said -- 

"Nora, what shall I do? I can't go back tonight to the house. Can you send for my things for me to sleep here, and let them know where I am? Not that there is any one to care," he added with a sigh.

"Proud and glad I'll be to have you, sir," answered Nora. "And there's John there, the best husband as iver lived, barrin' when he's throubled with thim bad dhrames of his -- at which time he's neither good to man nor baste, let alone a woman. He'll get out the trap, and be off to the Court and back in no time." And Mrs. Martin bustled off in search of her husband.

George sat over the friendly fire, staring into it, watching faces come and go, and castles rise and fall, which shone and glowed for a moment, and then suddenly collapsed and crumbled into nothing, like his own prospects. Weary and cold and hungry, he sat on a low chair, with his arms resting on his knees and his chin on his hand. Presently, John Martin entered the room. A tall burly man is he, a worthy host of the Rolleston Arms, a worthy mate for Nora. He is a north-country man, and loved Norah when she first was brought from Ireland by George's mother to be her maid. The first Mrs. Rolleston had been Irish, and Nora had followed her young mistress to England on her marriage. From lady's-maid she had turned into George's nurse, and then, when he required her no longer, she had taken pity on good John Martin. He had followed Nora south to court her; and when they married, having no ties elsewhere, they rented the Rolleston Arms, from George's father.

John Martin was clad in his rough winter coat and high boots. A billycock hat was jammed tight down upon his head, and he twisted a comforter round and round his stout short throat, speaking thickly through its fold the time -- ,

"Lord, Mister George, I shall be up t' the Court and back again in no time. Do yo mak the missis keep a gude fire, and luke to getting you some dinner, sir, whilst I be gone. Is there any note for me to tak', or what had I better say?"

"Only fetch my portmanteau with my clothes," said George; "you can get one of the servants to pack it, and ask them to tell Mrs. Rolleston where I am, and say I am going to stop here, at any rate for to-night."

"All right, sir, all right," said John Martin; and as he passed through the kitchen, where Nora was hurrying the maids to get the best room prepared for young Mr. Rolleston, he bade her go into the parlour and cheer the poor lad up a bit. "For Lord sakes, he do seem that low and miserable as do make a chap's heart ache, that it do, only to see him." And so saying, the worthy innkeeper made his way out into the winter's night, and, getting into his trap, drove off.

In the meantime at Rolleston Court there had been much anxiety felt about George's absence. Miles Rolleston was very loath to go without seeing him again, but he was obliged to return to town at once. He, however, left a kind letter for George, inviting him to come and stay with him soon at Sydenham, when they could talk over, as he said, whatever plans George might think of for the future. He went on to say that this great disappointment might, after all, perhaps, turn out for George's good, if he tried to bear it well and with courage; that his career might be as honourable, and certainly as active and useful, as that of a rich country squire. "You have enough," wrote Miles Rolleston, "to enable you to choose your path in life, and enter on it with advantage, though not enough to deprive you of the healthy stimulant of a need to labour." And the letter ended with many expressions of interest and regard.

This letter John Martin brought back with him that evening from the house. By the time he returned George had got thoroughly warmed, and Nora had persuaded him to eat; so that he was already in a frame of mind that inclined him to look less despondently upon his affairs. When he had read the letter through, he was able to talk even hopefully of the future; and he thought how much the advice it contained resembled that given by Nora, though in such different language.

He begged that John Martin would have his grog and pipe in the parlour, which both the innkeeper and his wife were loath he should do, as they evidently thought it was an infringement on good manners. But George pleaded his loneliness, and begged so hard, that they gave way; and soon any traveller, looking from the outside between the red curtains into the cosy room, might have seen quite a cheerful little party assembled there sitting over the fire. George sat at the table turning over a photograph book which Mrs. Martin was "very choice over," as she would take care to let people know. In it George found repetitions of himself at every age, from a befrilled baby in long clothes to a chubby boy in knickerbockers; and at last the photograph of a youth of fifteen, in the present ugly dress of the nineteenth century, stared at him from the book. John Martin leaned back in his easy chair, his pipe between his lips, blowing out smoke, which, curling and twisting as it rolled up above his big head, made all manner of strange shapes and misty forms about it. Nora has mixed her husband's grog and filled his pipe; she has put her one olive branch, aged five, to bed; and is now sitting knitting stockings at her husband's side, and conversing as cheerfully as she can with George. Presently the door of the cuckoo clock flies open, and its merry inmate announces to the world that it is nine o'clock. John has finished his grog, and looks askance at his wife with an expression which implies a desire for more.

"Now, John," says Nora, "don't ye be afther asking for more grog the night. You'll be hevin' thim dhrames ag'in, and it's more thin mortal woman can bear, and so I tell ye."

John laughs a loud guffaw, and makes answe -- "Coom, Missis, I've been a lang drive in the bitter cauld and snaw, and in honour of Mr. George there, I think I be entoitled to another glass. I go bail Mr. George thinks so too."

"Let him have another glass, Nora," said George; "what a shame to prevent him."

"It's all very well for you, Master George, to say, ' Let him have another glass,' saving yer presence, but it's not you as has to bear wid him when he's throubled with dhrames. If you was a respectable Christian woman wid a good conscience and, shure, niver a bad word nor thought for nobody -- and that's the truth, though maybe I shouldn't say it -- how would ye like, when ye's asleep and comfortable in yer own warm bed, where you've a right to be, and a sleeping sound and beautiful wid cheerful pleasant dhrames of yer own -- how would ye like, I say, to have a great big murthering voice suddint like come roaring in yer ear, 'Who the divil are you?' How would ye like that, Master George?" asked Nora, in a voice of triumph.

"Who was it?" said George, laughing in spite of himself.

"Who was it, thin?" cried Nora; "why, who but me own husband there. The omadoun was draming av robbers or such like, and turns round in his slape, or just on the wake maybe, and shouts out right into my one ear that's next him, like thunder, with that perlite inquiry. Shure, Master George, I had that fit av trimbling and shaking as loostened me best teeth. And then," Nora went on, waxing warm and eloquent with her subject, "another night I wakes meself up to find him a stroking and a scratching the top av me head, and a calling out, ' Poor Phuss!' Shure, and if the man wasn't a taking av me for our black cat. I've no patience wid him, Master George, not I. And would ye believe it, now, some years gone by, when the child was only a few months old, if he didn't set himself up in the middle of his bed a holloing like mad; and when I cried, 'Save us, John, what iver are ye afther now?' what do ye think he made answer, Master George? Why, that he was a ancient something out av the Bible -- but I forget what now -- about to be slain in battle. And when he'd woke the baby and made it roar, shure if he didn't turn round to me, as I was a-trying to hush it off, and says very civil like,' Pray, ma'm, would ye be so kind as tell me what strange animal ye've got there, a making of that most abominable noise?' Lord, Master George, dear, ye might hev knocked me down wid a feather; to hear the man a-spaking of his own flesh and blood as a strange animal, and a-looking at the child, if you'll believe me, wid no more sinse in his face nor nothing. 'Strange animal, indeed!' I calls out, and I fetches him sich a box on his ear, I did, saving yer presence. 'Why, look at yerself for that, John,' I says; 'sitting up in the dead of the night, spaking to yer own wife civil like as if she was a stranger, and calling yer own blessed child names.' Luckily, the box on the ear brought him to himself at oncet, and he recognized me. But God save us, Master George, I haven't tell yer half, for there's niver a night that he takes a small dhrop too much -- not that the man's a drunkard, far from it -- or overates himself the least bit in the world, but he either takes me head for a pumpkin, or me nose for the door-handle, or maybe the whole of raeself for a murthering thief, and behaves himself like a raging maniac instead of the quiet critter you see him now." tHere Nora Martin, with sparkling eyes and crimsoned cheeks, stopped to recover her breath.

John Martin was leaning back in his chair, with his pipe in his hand, and a broad grin on his good-natured face, listening to his voluble wife's description of his midnight vagaries; while George could not help laughing at this absurd account of poor Nora's matrimonial trials.

"Weel, Nora, all I can say is," good-temperedly spoke John, "you're not the woman to let a story lose in the telling of it; but while you've been airing yer tongue, missis, I hev taken the leeberty of filling my glass again, and so here's yer vara gude health," and so saying he raised his grog to his lips.

What Nora would have replied I know not, for just then there came a tremendous thump at the inn door, which had been shut to keep out the snow and the wind on this inclement night.

CHAPTER IX.

JULIUS CAESAR AGAIN.

THUMP, thump, thump, resounded against the door of the "Rolleston Arms," and with every thump a voice of lamentation was heard from the unfortunate outsider. As George jumped up, and with John and Nora rushed to the door, it struck him -- very much to his astonishment -- that the lamenting sound was familiar to his ears; that it was, in fact, neither more nor less than the "Golly, golly!" of our old friend, Julius Caesar. John Martin undid the bolts, and when he threw open the door, in rushed the negro, presenting a wonderful piebald appearance from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot. Snow had lodged in the rim of his tall chimney-pot hat, forming a white coronet to adorn his black head; a few flakes rested in his wool, and some dotted his face; the whole of one side of his figure -- that which had been to windward -- was white, while the other had scarcely any snow upon it. Altogether, he looked even more forlorn and miserable -- though in a different way -- than when George had befriended him at the Devil's Dyke.

When the strange figure rushed headlong into the inn, Nora held up her hands in dismay, uttering ejaculations which sounded very like short prayers for protection against the evil one. Stout John Martin, too, could scarcely have worn a more scared look had he been just awakening from one of "thim bad dhrames" that his wife had been describing so eloquently. George was the only self-possessed one of the party, and this was, I think, partly owing to his previous acquaintance with the negro. At the sight of George, Julius Caesar seemed considerably astonished, and stood with his knees half bent, his hands hanging down by his sides, his teeth chattering, and his eyes rolling from one to the other of the three people whose cosy chat by the fireside he had thus suddenly disturbed. At last he spoke -- 

"Cho, good people!" cried he, "I am come for to get some help for my ole massa, the General. He hab had de misfortune to be oberturned in a berry nasty ditch." Then, turning to George, he said, "Dis young gentlemans is de same, if I do not mistake, as was so good as to rescue me t'other day at de Debel's Dyke. Pray, sar, be so kind as tell dese people to help my poor massa. Oh, golly, golly! dis is berry bitter cold weather, freezing dis poor nigger's bones. Cho, massa, git me drop ob someting to warm my inside. Yah, yah!"

Nora hurried into the bar, and in a moment returned to the parlour, where John Martin and George had in the meantime led Julius Caesar, and gave him a steaming glass of brandy and water. George then explained what he knew of him, and Julius gave an account of his present trouble. It seemed that his master, Sir John McDougal, had arrived at the Faringdon station from London that evening, and there had taken a fly to proceed to the house of his brother-inlaw, a clergyman, who lived about five miles from the station; but the driver of the fly -- what with the snow without, and the antidote to the snow and cold which he had taken internally -- not only missed his way, but upset the fly in a ditch. Julius Caesar described how he and the driver had managed to right the fly again between them, but a shaft was broken, so it was impossible to continue the journey; and now the General was sitting inside the fly by the roadside, about a quarter of a mile from the village of Bymaston.

"I hab run on," concluded the negro, "in order to procure assistance for my gentleman. He be swearing terrible; he berry tender feelin' gentleman; can't bear de cold at all."

"Shure," said Nora, "an' yer ould master'll be afther heving a bad time av it out there in the cawld. John, there, 'ad better be taking out the mare and cart agin, and be fetching him here, or th' ould gintleman won't hev much tinder failing left. Shure, he'll be froze entirely."

"Hech, Nora, woman, you're quite roight. I'll be off and harness t'auld mare, and go and see after darkey's master," answered John, and as he passed his wife he gently pinched her cheek, and whispered as he did so, "Ye're not sorry now, missis, that I had my extra glass, are ye? It's cauld work in store for me to-night."

Nora gave him a box on the ear, playfully meant, but not a light one, and went away to get things ready for the old General's reception, in case they brought him back with them; while honest John went off to the stable, accompanied by Julius Csesar. In the meantime George walked up to his room, and got into bed. Then he began to recall to mind all his troubles. He thought of the quarrel with his father, so quickly followed by the death of the latter; of his own bitter repentance before he knew the punishment that awaited him. Then he pictured to himself the scene at the reading of the will, by which he was disinherited; but somehow, in spite of the trials of that eventful day, and the sudden change in all his hopes and prospects for the future, he discovered that he was already feeling rather less miserable than he had felt a few hours before, and he soon went off into a sound and tranquil sleep.

The mare was quickly harnessed in the trap for the second time that cold evening, and John Martin and the negro were soon jogging along the road behind old Bess. Presently, through the haze of the winter's night, they could distinguish a dark object standing by the roadside, which Julius at once declared to be the damaged fly. From the inside of the vehicle a loud, deep roar proceeded, which they soon discovered to be the reiteration of the word, "Boy." This roar came from the old General, who appeared to forget at the moment that he was in England, and was using the word which in India is applied to all male native servants, no matter what their age or duties may be. "Boy, boy, boy!" shouted the old Indian officer; and then followed a string of very decidedly strong invectives. Julius Caesar gave a grunt, and muttered, "Cho! my ole massa's monkey up, and no mistake." Then out loud he cried -- 

"Comin', massa; comin', sar. Julius Caesar close to massa."

It did not take another minute to bring John Martin and his companion to the side of the fly; when, after a few words of explanation, the General made up his mind to proceed in John Martin's trap to Dumbleton Rectory, and to leave Julius Caesar and the flyman to follow with the luggage as soon as they were able. Dumbleton Rectory was about two miles from Bymaston, and the rector was no other than Mr. Burton, the father of our friend Tommy, who was consequently the nephew of Sir John McDougal. Old Bess stepped out, the trap sped noiselessly along over the soft carpet of snow upon the road, and the General was soon deposited safely inside the hospitable doors of the Rectory. As John Martin returned, he met Julius Caesar and the fly with the luggage coming on at a snail's pace, the broken shaft having been tied up in a rickety sort of way with rope. Arrived at last once more at his own fireside, John found Nora not a little put out at having made useless preparations for the reception of Sir John McDougal. However, her good humour soon returned, and they retired to their couch, where we will hope honest John enjoyed the dreamless sleep which he had so fairly earned.

The next morning the sun shone out with such splendour that, glancing to the sky, it was hard to believe the morrow would be Christmas Day; but, looking on the earth, there could be no mistake about the time of year. King Winter had cast abroad his jewels too plentifully for that. How they glistened and sparkled on the windows! and each tiny sprig among the hedges, insignificant and almost hidden in summer by the leaves, gained importance and an increased bulk from the glittering dress that now was thrust upon it. All round the horse-trough, that stood in front of the "Rolleston Arms," hung strings of icicles, making the homely wooden stand the centre of a jewelled rim. As for the old oak, that George could almost touch as he leaned out of the lattice window of his bedroom, sniffing the fresh cold air, it was so transformed, so gay and glittering in its Christmas garb, that its best friends would scarce have known it. How the snow sparkled beneath the sunlight on its strange gnarled weird arms, and on its giant trunk! While George was looking from the window, he could hear in the distance the muffled sound of horses' hoofs upon the snowy ground. The sound was evidently approaching; and presently he could distinguish the quick, short steps of a pony pattering fast in the direction of the village. The old oak intercepted his view of the road; but, as he descended the stairs a minute afterwards on his way to the parlour, he looked out at the open door of the inn, and there he beheld, just pulling up in front of it, the pony and its rider. The pony was a stout well-conditioned little cob, round, sleek, and fat; while, bestriding this animal, whom should he see but his newly-made friend, Thomas Burton. On catching sight of George Rolleston, Tommy slipped from his saddle, and, putting himself for a moment into a theatrical attitude of surprise, came forward to meet him.

"What a remarkable fact that I should come upon you thus," quoth Thomas; "for I was going to Rolleston Court to inquire after you. I just pull up to ask my road from the worthy host of this wayside inn, when, lo and behold! I perceive the object of my thoughts glancing me over with a cold gray eye from the postern."

"It was very kind of you," answered George; "particularly starting so early in the morning. I have not yet had my breakfast. It is only a little after nine."

"I had my breakfast at eight o'clock," said Thomas. "An old Indian uncle of mine came to stay with us last night; and, whenever he's in the house, sharp's the word in the morning. Why, the old bird's accustomed to get up in the middle of the night in India; so he likes his meals betimes, even in this civilized part of the world. But, as you have not breakfasted, I don't mind having a small second edition with you, if you like to ask me; and then you can tell me, at the same time, how it happens I find you here."

George called to the ostler to take his friend's horse round to the stables, and then the two lads entered the parlour together. George was not long in making Thomas Burton acquainted with his change of prospects and position.

Poor boy! As he recounted the events of the day before, he found it impossible to swallow a mouthful of the goodly fare which his old nurse had provided for his breakfast; while Tommy Burton made the most of his time, and, but for his having just said so, nobody would have thought that this was a second edition. On sitting down he had remarked that he would endeavour to "peck a bit," -- that he would "play with a morsel, just to keep George in countenance." But soon broiled ham, devilled chicken, toast and marmalade, disappeared in such quick succession, washed down with copious draughts of hot coffee, that Tommy Burton seemed to grow fatter, and rounder, and redder every minute.

While George was telling his sad story, Tommy felt obliged to restrain his love of chattering; and perhaps he found it easier to do this while he gave his mouth plenty of employment in another way. To do him justice, though, he felt deeply for George, and did all in his power to cheer him up. He begged him to come and stay at his father's house -- to return with him then, if he would.

"The moment I tell my father about you," said Tommy, "he will be miserable until you come. He's the j oiliest, kindest-hearted man you ever saw, though I say it as shouldn't, perhaps. Besides, I say, old fellow, you know you can't spend Christmas Day here all alone; you know it isn't possible."

But George would not hear of it. "I cannot forget that it was only yesterday I saw my father buried," said he. "It is very kind, but even if your father asked me to stay at his house, I could not come to you yet."

Tommy could get no more from him than this; but he determined to look him up very often during the next few days, and then see if his father could not persuade him to come and stay with them.

Christmas Day passed by, and George had had no communication with Rolleston Court: but during the week following, Mr. Burton, who was really just what his son described him to be, called on George, and invited him to spend a week or two at the Rectory. He persuaded George -- for he was the kind of man to have influence with a boy -- to write a civil letter to his step-mother, as well as one to his other guardian, Myles Rolleston, telling them of his invitation to Dumbleton Rectory, and saying that he wished to accept it.

From Madam, he received no answer; but his other letter brought a pleasant and kind reply. Myles Rolleston was considerate enough to send him a good supply of pocket-money, and asked him, as soon as his visit at Dumbleton should be over, to come to him at Sydenham, when, as he said, they could talk over George's plans for the future.

Nora was glad to see her "darlint boy" start off on his visit, in spite of the pride and pleasure she had felt in having him at the inn.

"Shure, and it's lonesome and dull for him here," she said to her husband. "And I'll be glad to think that he's spindin' the time wid other young folks."

On New Year's eve George arrived just in time for dinner at Dumbleton Rectory. It stood on the slope of a hill, just above the old gray church, and a winding path led down from the garden through a paddock to the churchyard.

As George swept round the drive in the ponycarriage, which his friend Tommy was coaching along much to his own satisfaction, he felt in a more cheerful and happy frame of mind than he had known since his troubles had come upon him. The shutters were not yet closed, and the warm light shone through the windows, making cheerful bright streaks across the garden in front of the hospitable-looking house. As they drove up to the porch, a great barking of dogs sounded from the inside. The door was open before they could get out, and in a moment George had jumped from the little carriage, and was standing in the brightly-lit hall with his cold hand clasped in Mr. Burton's large warm one.

Dogs of all sizes, big and little, were standing or lying about in the hall, and they came sniffing round the new arrival. Presently he heard a chirping noise at his elbow, and a very small and rather hairy hand was slipped into his. On turning round he beheld the owner of the hand nestled in Tommy Burton's arms, who called out -- 

"Let me introduce you, sir, to a person of no little importance in the house -- Lady Jane, the monkey."

CHAPTER X.

DUMBLETON RECTORY.

THE walls and ceiling of the hall at Dumbleton Rectory were hung with holly, mistletoe, and ivy; and the bright gleaming berries, white and red, shone in the light thrown on them by the lamp and fire. There could be no mistake about its being Christmas time at the Rectory. As George glanced from face to face -- and there were four faces now to glance at without counting those of the dogs and monkey -- a kindly light of welcome seemed to beam from all of them upon him. Foremost is the face of Mr. Burton, who is a tall, dark man, with Tommy's merry eyes and short stiff hair, which, however, in him is tinged with gray; and he smiles kindly down upon George. Beside Mr. Burton, with her hand resting on his shoulder, her face against his arm, stands Rhoda Burton, who had followed her father into the hall. She is Tommy's only sister, a girl of some twelve years old, like him and yet unlike; she bears just that strange resemblance to her brother which one so often detects in pretty girls to the ugly males of the same family. Softened, brightened, and refined as the likeness is, still Rhoda carries in her face unmistakable evidence of her relationship to our friend Tommy.

Just within the drawing-room door, which opened into the hall, stands a figure, which at first sight seems that of a giant, and nearly fills up the doorway. It is, in fact, that of MajorGeneral Sir John McDougal, who is a very tall, large-boned old Scotchman, and bears a strong likeness in the face to a lion, particularly if you can imagine a lion with the mane turned gray. Then there is Tommy himself, with Lady Jane, the monkey, in his arms, making her stretch out her little cold hand and hairy arm in welcome to George; while she also turns towards him her grotesque little wrinkled gray face and blinking eyes. The very monkey seemed to look with friendliness upon him; and as to the dogs -- why, there could be no doubt about their friendship and good feeling, for every one among them was wagging his tail as if he would shake it off.

Though I have needed so many words to picture this group in the hall, it was all taken in at a glance by George while he threw off his wrappers. The group was quickly broken up by Sir John McDougal.

"Weel, Burton," he called out in a loud, deep voice, "are ye going to keep the lads out in the hall all the evening? is this your hospitality? I feel a severe draught blowing on me while I'm standing here."

Mr. Burton laughed, and marshalled the party from the hall into the drawing-room, whence they soon went upstairs to get ready for dinner. George's room was next to that of his friend, and opened out of it. While they were dressing, Tommy stood in the doorway between the two rooms in his shirt sleeves, rubbing his round red face with a rough towel, which made it glow till it looked like a large tomato; and as he rubbed he talked.

"Such a lark, old fellow," he said; "Rhoda has got a new governess; she only came two or three days ago. She's French, and can hardly talk a word of English; we are none of us very good French scholars except my old uncle, and he jabbers away to her like mad."

"I say," interrupted George, "is that your only sister, Tommy?"

"It is," replied Tommy; "dog of a son my father has one, and also one tiresome cat of a daughter. Ah! you wouldn't think it to look at Rhoda, but she can show her claws finely when she likes; you should just see her flying out when I want her to be obliging, and do anything for the snakes or ferrets. Girls are a mistake altogether, in my opinion. But I was going to tell you something; such jolly fun! Madame Rougeville -- or Rouge vile, as I always call her -- for don't she lay it on, that's all? -- asked me to tell her something polite in English to say to my uncle; so I've been teaching her a little speech. I only hope I shall hear her when she lets it off."

As Tommy concluded, he doubled himself up, and chuckled and roared in anticipation of the fun. George did not then learn what the little speech was which the unfortunate governess had been taught to repeat; though, as it happened, he had only to wait a few minutes before his curiosity was satisfied. When the boys entered the drawing-room, the governess and Rhoda were already seated there; the former was speaking French to her pupil, and persuading her to try to answer in the same language. Madame Rougeville was a lean, elderly woman, between fifty and sixty years of age, but evidently intending to look much younger. She was rather over-dressed, had a quantity of false, light hair, and even George's inexperienced eye could detect at once that she certainly did rouge. If that peculiarity could justify Tommy's hostility, or excuse his making her the subject of practical joking -- as he seemed to think it did -- why, certainly that excuse he had; for she undoubtedly, as he said, did "lay it on."

Mr. Burton and Sir John McDougal quickly followed the boys into the drawing-room, and the latter seated himself by Madame Rougeville. George, who was standing near, understood French well enough to know that he was recommending her to air her English a little more; and complimenting her upon a few words which he had heard her speak. A minute afterwards dinner was announced, and all rose. As Sir John was offering her his arm, she said very slowly and distinctly, "Sare John, you aire a feenished blackguard." Every one heard it, and there was a moment of silence and consternation; then Tommy exploded into a loud guffaw. The General made a low bow, and said, "Madame, you find most original words to convey your compliments in." The poor woman saw there was something wrong, but did not understand what mistake she had made, and took the General's offered arm. Mr. Burton looked very angry; evidently he saw through it all, but thought it better to say nothing at the time.

During dinner the conversation turned upon the subject of Tom Burton's future. He was to go out to India to join the Madras Cavalry towards the end of the year which began on the following day. The subject of India being started, the old General soon began to hold forth in a way which became very interesting to the boys. Such adventures as he had had! such hunting of all the wild beasts of India! Again, after dinner, when Tommy had confessed to Madame Rougeville the trick he had played her, and asked her pardon, which his father had required him to do, they all sat round the fire while Sir John McDougal told them more of his Indian experiences.

The old man seemed to take a great interest in George; he had heard from Julius Caesar that George was the hero of the adventure of the Devil's Dyke, and he thanked him for his kindness and courage in helping the poor negro. In fact, George found himself made much of in consequence by the whole family at the Rectory.

In listening to the old General's stories of war and hunting, the last evening of the old year passed quickly away. As the clock began to strike midnight, Tommy Burton rushed frantically from the room, and out at the house door; there, in the open air, he executed a succession of solemn and profound bows. This was a way of welcoming the new year in, which was sure, he said, to bring good luck with it. The church bells then pealed out a merry chime, and the old year died as they rang.

Our boy's dreams that night were full of strange creatures conjured up in his active brain by the stories he had heard. Tigers, elephants, cobras, bears, and hyenas flitted before him in his sleep. When he awoke on the new year's morning it was with such a thirst for adventure, such a longing to visit the places and see the sights that Sir John McDougal had pictured in his vivid word-painting, that as he plunged into his cold tub and came out fresh and strong from the invigorating shock, he made up his mind to decide upon his future career at once. He determined to write to his guardian that very day, proposing to enter the Indian army. While he was dressing, he called out to his friend Tommy to tell him of his determination; and the two boys talked together merrily of their future plans; for of course they looked forward to going out together, and being together in many a danger and hair-breadth escape. During the day they consulted Mr. Burton and the General, who both applauded George Rolleston's resolution; the General declaring that India was the field for all young men who really cared for soldiering or for a life of adventure. Accordingly that evening George wrote to Myles Rolleston to tell him of the choice of a profession he had made, and asking his approval of it.

So began the new year for George, more hopefully than he could have imagined a few days before. He was already reconciled to his new position, and he seemed to have found kinder friends in his misfortune than he had ever known when he was heir to Rolleston Court.

While he is waiting for his guardian's answer, let us see how the time is spent at Dumbleton Rectory. A cheerful party assembled the next morning at breakfast in the comfortable lowceilinged dining-room. The sun shines in at the windows just enough to tempt everybody out after breakfast to try how firm the ice is. No fear that he is going to melt it though. No! there it is as firm and hard on the great pond, or lake as they called it, at the bottom of the Rectory garden, as if the frost had lasted for a month. The whole party gradually assembles during the morning on or near the pond. The two boys soon get on their skates, and skim about like swallows on the surface of the water. Rhoda too, who could already skate pretty well, is not long before she joins the boys upon the ice, and with her Madame Rougeville makes her appearance. The governess must needs make an effort to skate also, a fancy which those mischievous boys encouraged her in. They soon had skates upon her feet, and she stood upon the ice like a cat in walnut-shells. "Ah, mon Dieu!" she cried, "my foots shall run from me. I vill scrim." At that moment she suddenly and involuntarily sat plump down upon the ice, and screamed accordingly. Mr. Burton and the General came to her assistance; she was soon on her legs again; and finding that she was not hurt, was seized with an obstinate determination to become a proficient in the art of skating. Sir John sent for a chair, which, being placed in front of her, she was instructed to lean upon the back of it with her hands, while Julius Caesar was directed to support her at the side. These precautions, however, availed not; when she had moved a few yards, she flopped down again with a tremendous crash. Throwing her arms out as she fell to save herself by clutching at the negro, she knocked off his hat, and caught his woolly hair. This made matters worse, for it did not save her, but brought Julius Caesar down on the top of her. In her terror and confusion she pulled harder and harder at his wool, and while she screamed, he shouted for help. All the party rushed to the spot: Julius Caesar was with difficulty released; he walked away with tears in his eyes, rubbing his poor head. Indeed, he was the more to be pitied of the two, for Madame proved to be much more frightened than hurt.

When she was all right again, and her skates were taken off, Tommy ventured to remonstrate with her for screaming so awfully. "Why, Madame Rougeville, any one would have thought you were being killed," said he; "really you should not scream in that way."

"Not scrim!" she replied, indignantly. "Mais comment -- not scrim? Quand je me fais du mal -- I shall scrim, scrim, scrim always. Why for not scrim? The world not know I suffer if I not scrim."

And poor Madame Rougeville was destined to scream again that very afternoon. This time that good-for-nothing boy Tommy was the cause of it, and it happened in this wise. The scene was the drawing-room at dusk, where the whole family were assembled listening to the General, who was telling one of his Indian stories, while the shadows rose and fell fitfully as the fire blazed or smouldered on the hearth. Now Tommy, big boy as he was, still patronized a toffy-shop in the village: this afternoon he had a store of hardbake in his pocket, on some of which Rhoda and he had been regaling; and while he sat listening to his uncle, he kept his teeth busy munching the hardbake. Presently he observed a small dark object coming towards him across the floor of the room. This was no other than Lady Jane, the monkey, who had the run of the house just like one of the family, for, being a special pet of Rhoda's, who was the very apple of her father's eye, she came in secondhand for some of Mr. Burton's favour; and from the corner where she lay half asleep, her quick ear had caught the sound of Tommy's teeth crunching the hardbake. When he saw her approaching, he rose, and, very quickly and dexterously placed a small piece of the tempting sweet on the back of the low easy-chair in which Madame Rougeville was reclining, and close, of course, to that lady's shoulders. She was leaning back in her chair, holding a screen before her face, and perhaps half asleep after the fatigue of the morning. Suddenly she sprang up shrieking with terror. All rushed to her assistance, and discovered the cause of her alarm in Lady Jane, who was seated on the unfortunate governess's shoulder, and clinging there, while she chattered, and grinned, and munched her piece of hardbake.

But a day or two afterwards, Tommy played off a more serious practical joke upon Madame Rougeville, and one which might have tried the nerves of a more courageous person than she was. The family had all gone to bed except the two gentlemen, who were still sitting in the drawing-room, when they heard appalling screams. Hurrying upstairs, they met the governess, halfundressed and still screaming, on her way down, when she threw herself at once into the General's arms. Mr. Burton ran into her bed-room to discover what had frightened her. At first he saw nothing unusual; then a muffled sound of thumping from the bed attracted his attention, and he beheld the black head of Dan, the great Newfoundland dog, resting on the pillow where the head of Madame Rougeville ought to have been, and adorned besides with her befrilled nightcap. The thumping he had heard was the wagging of old Dan's tail under the bed-clothes. Tommy had introduced Dan into the bed-room and bed, and placed the cap upon his head, just before all the people had retired to their rooms, and had told him to remain quiet there -- a command which the good old dog had obeyed too well, unconscious of the anguish he was causing. Madame Rougeville had begun to undress before she discovered that her bed was occupied, and then was too frightened to examine who or what it was. Tommy richly deserved the scolding he received for this trick. Whatever fun there might be in these pranks was dearly purchased -- at least, so thought the elders of the party -- by the real alarm which, for the moment, the unfortunate Frenchwoman suffered.

While we are on the subject, however, of Tommy's misdemeanours, I must just tell a story of another victim to his love of practical joking. One evening he offered Lady Jane some sherry and finding that she took kindly to the bottle, as any Christian might, he gave her as much as she could drink. Becoming intoxicated, she conducted herself very much like a human being in the same state -- smashing everything that came in her way; but the next morning she was a pitiable sight to see. The poor little beast wandered about, holding the tuft of hair which grew straight on end on the top of her head, and smiting herself many times on her forehead, to inform the company of the painful consequences of her folly. Jane, like Madame Rougeville, was anxious that the whole world should be aware of her suffering.

However, this was the last Christmas young Burton was likely to pass at home. By the end of the year he might be carrying on his pranks in a playground far away, and on this account much was excused. Three or four days only of the new year had passed, when George came down to breakfast, to find upon his plate a letter in the welcome handwriting of Myles Rolleston.

CHAPTER XI.

TOM BURTON'S NEW ACCOMPLISHMENT.

THE world has grown one year older since George Rolleston received his guardian's letter, acquiescing in his wish to prepare himself for the career of an Indian officer. The seasons have passed rapidly for our hero, and rapidly must I sketch for you the time that has gone by. Snow was still upon the ground when the two lads left the Rectory for Addiscombe, and twice they returned there together during that last year they spent in England. Indeed, that hospitable house had become almost as much a home for George as for the Rector's own son; and often afterwards, when they were in India, they would look back to those last days passed at the Rectory, and recall to mind the fresh air and health-giving atmosphere, and all the cheerful sights and sounds of English country life.

Their first visit was at Easter, when the country round was green and gay with blossoms, and the meadow land gave forth the fresh sweet smell of spring, when the sun had gently lifted from the earth's face the heavy veil of snow, and all that grew upon the earth looked lovingly and smilingly up into the sky in gratitude. During this visit George went over, by Mr. Burton's advice, to call upon his stepmother and Eric; but he was received so coldly, so little interest was shown by his stepmother and her son in his affairs and prospects, that George determined it should be the last time he troubled the inmates of Rolleston Court with a visit.

Midsummer saw our boys again at the Rectory, and they spent a month of such enjoyment as only a merry party of young people, with kindhearted, good-natured old ones to take care of them, can know. The two lads were then just standing on the threshold of a new existence; they knew that this jolly boy-life was drawing to a close; that these were the last pic-nics in the woods, the last boating expeditions, the last days to be spent in merriment at home. They knew that when they returned to England -- if they were destined to return at all -- they would probably come back sunburnt, bearded warriors, with impaired digestions and Indian livers. What fun there was at the haymaking! How the boys worked to get the hay carted before the storm, that had been so long threatening, broke upon them. The old man who superintended the stacking was heard to say, "If 'twarn't for them two lads, we never should a dune it." And the hay was but just stacked in time, and the tarpauling securely spread upon it, when the rain came down in torrents. During that midsummer, Madame Rougeville was away for a holiday, so Rhoda and her father were out and about with the boys a good deal; and Rhoda joined in many of their amusements, in spite of Tommy's openly-expressed contempt for girls, and all their ways and doings. Whether Tommy really thought as he spoke or not, George at all events felt the softening influence of the girl's presence; and however much some of my young readers may be inclined to doubt it, or to talk as Tommy did, they may rest assured that such influence humanizes and improves boys' natures, as the influence of woman refines and elevates men. But we must not linger over those long pleasant days of the last summer our boys were to spend for many a long year in a happy English country home.

Late in the autumn the family at the Rectory were greatly excited by a telegram dispatched from Addiscombe with the welcome news that both George and Tommy had passed their examinations. The next month or so was spent in making preparations for their departure. Young Burton now, as well as- George, became the guest of Myles Rolleston at Sydenham, and the two boys made expeditions nearly every day to London. Such work it was! Such a whirl of business they seemed to live in. Continual visits to tailors, saddlers, and outfitters of all kinds. The very day on which their uniforms came home, Mr. Burton and Rhoda -- who were staying in London for a short time -- came down to dine at Sydenham; and after dinner Myles Rolleston's fat, comely, good-natured wife persuaded the boys to go upstairs, and don their uniforms to show what they were like. In a few minutes, George and Tommy reappeared, dressed in the handsome pale blue and silver uniform of the Madras Light Cavalry, to which they had both been appointed.

George's tall, well-made figure showed to advantage in the close-fitting dress, while poor Tommy's globular form made but a sorry appearance beside him. That young gentleman seemed to feel it, for after standing for a minute in front of a large glass, he heaved a deep sigh, and said with a serio-comic expression -- "Behold! 'tis but a fat boy in buttons." At first every one was inclined to laugh at and rally him on his rotundity and want of height and grace; but after a moment they, more considerately, began to assure him that his uniform became him very well; and they all busied themselves in trying to recollect the names of great and distinguished men -- warriors especially -- who had been of short and podgy-stature. Numerous instances could be quoted of little great men, but examples of fat ones were more difficult to find. However, Tommy soon recovered his spirits, and suddenly mounting upon a chair, stretched out his hand in a melodramatic manner, and in a stentorian voice exclaimed -- 

"Were I so tall to reach the sky,
Or take the ocean in my span;
The mind's the thing to measure by,
The soul's the standard of the man."

"Well said, Tommy," cried good-natured George, quite seriously; "I am sure your mind and soul are both more than a match for mine; your wits certainly are the best."

"Don't be sentimental, boys," said Mr. Burton; "now since Tommy has placed himself in that conspicuous position, let us make him stay there, and sing us a song."

This proposal was echoed by the whole company. Tommy had, quite recently, come out with great success as a comic singer; and all the young Rollestons -- for there were about a dozen of them present, Myles Rolleston having fifteen olive branches in all -- clamoured loudly for a funny song. Tommy cleared his throat, and with a merry twinkle in his eyes, and in a strong Irish brogue, started off with a song called "The Irish Car." It began as follows: -- 

"Do you want a kyar, yer honour?
Shure, I'm the boy for you;
Wid me foine owld Irish jaunting kyar,
All painted red and blue.
Take some bread and beef and porter
And some whiskey in a jyar,
That's the way to take yer pleasure
In an Irish jaunting kyar.

"Shure, 'tis Cupid's own conveyance,
And in the well amongst the hay,
The little rogue conceals himself
To heer of what swatehearts say;
And all the blarney he does heer
No tongue can e'er relate, sir;
Shure, it's enough to smash the conveyance,
And blow the dhriver aff his sate, sir."

There was a good deal more of it, set to a quick, lively air; Tommy sang away with all his might, and in a very spirited style. As the last verse concluded, he jumped down from the chair, on which he had all the time been standing, and was greeted with loud applause from the assembled company, especially from the younger portion of it. The applause had scarcely subsided, when an incident occurred which gave him an opportunity of exhibiting another accomplishment to his friends, much to their surprise and amusement -- an accomplishment which it appeared afterwards, he had lately been cultivating in secret. But this incident requires to be introduced by a few words of explanation.

In the best regulated families of children, if large, there is almost always one black sheep, one child in whom mischievous or evil propensities of some kind thrive and grow more than in others. In the numerous progeny of Myles Rolleston, the old Adam seemed to flourish most in the youngest of the flock; the one whose outer child was the most prepossessing of them all. Georgie Rolleston was a sweet, fair, purefaced little girl of five years old; with great, honest-looking, bright blue eyes, that seemed as if they could never look a lie any more than her pretty rosy lips could tell one. Yet this child was more given to fibbing than any child I ever met! she had told in her short life more of what her old nurse called "tarrididdles," than all her brothers and sisters put together. Myles Rolleston, who doted on this his youngest born, could never be prevailed upon to punish her, scarcely even to see a fault in her; and when -- as happened sometimes -- she brought her brothers and sisters into trouble by laying some fault upon them which she had committed herself, he would still try to excuse her by saying she might have forgotten, or misunderstood, or been mistaken.

There was one occasion, however, on which her propensity to fib showed itself so unmistakably that he could find no excuse; it happened in this way: -- Georgie had a bad habit of biting her nails, and one of her uncles, who often paid visits of a few days together at the house, took particular pains to cure her of this habit, by a system of either scolding' her or giving her little presents, according as her nails, on inspection, gave evidence of having been lately bitten or not. This system was so effectual that whenever she knew he was coming beforehand, she used to go to her mother of her own accord, and beg to have her hands put in bags so as to protect them from her own teeth. One day the little girl was looking out of the nursery window, and saw Uncle Charlie coming up the drive. He had not been expected, and Georgie's nails, free of bags, had been feasted upon to her heart's content. Consternation was in the little girl's heart: what should she do? If she had been one of the right-minded members of the family, she would have confessed at once, and promised amendment for the future. But, no! Georgie's cowardice and inclination to falsehood were too strong for that. Escaping from the nursery and rushing downstairs, she met her Uncle Charlie in the hall before he had time to speak to any one else. Breathless and excited she stood before him with her little hands clasped tight behind her back, and shrieked out in a defiant voice, "Granny bit 'em; Granny bit 'em I" -- Granny being Mrs. Rolleston's mother, who was then staying in the house. Her uncle was for a moment at a loss to imagine what the child could possibly mean; till noticing how carefully she kept her hands concealed, it dawned upon him that she meant to tell him her nails had been bitten off by her grandmother. She evidently intended to keep her hands hidden, if possible; but should the examination be insisted on, she boldly put forward her plan of defence.

This occurred about a year before the evening on which George and young Burton were displaying themselves in all the glory of their new uniforms to the company in the drawing-room at Elm Lodge. That evening Georgie was sitting on her father's knee, listening, among the rest, to Tommy's singing. Now it happened that Mrs. Rolleston, although one would think she had children enough to fill every corner of her warm heart, was very fond of animals. She had many pets, but her favourite among all was a certain little, long-haired Scotch terrier. A sort of living gray muff was Jip; with hair so long that no legs were to be seen; and except when he was moving, and you might presume the head went first, it was not always easy to distinguish the head from the tail. Jip had been missed during the whole afternoon. As it was his washing day, however, his absence from the drawing-room had not excited uneasiness. But just as Tommy Burton finished his song, and before the applause had yet subsided, a sound of scratching was heard at the drawingroom door. It was not quite closed, and through the narrow opening appeared a most unpleasantlooking object. A mouse-coloured monster slunk into the room. It had a long and almost hairless body, supported on four short hairless legs; at one end appeared a little stump, which hardly could be called a tail; at the other, an odd-looking, rough, round head, with curious ears of an irregular length.

Could this monstrous thing be the ere-while lovely and hairy Jip? Who had been the ruthless destroyer of the poor dog's hairy beauty and comfort? Tommy Burton happened to glance round the room, and as his eye lighted upon Georgie, whose rosy face had now deepened to carnation, it occurred to him at once that she was the culprit. Dejected miserable Jip made his way through the room up to his mistress, while exclamations of horror greeted him on every side. A mingled expression of disgust at his hideousness and commiseration for his misfortune might have been discerned in the faces of all.

"Who has done this? Who can have cut the poor dog's hair off?" exclaimed Myles Rolleston and his wife in one breath.

"What an awful shame! what a beastly shame!" was repeated by the youthful male portion of the assembly.

While the girls cried, "Darling Jip, poor, dear doggie!" and gathered round him, overcoming the repugnance which his ugliness excited, to stroke and pet him.

"Children, I insist upon knowing who has been so cruel to this poor dog," said Mr. Rolleston, in a stern voice. "Whoever has done it must confess at once; it is a nasty mischievous trick, without the slightest fun in it. I insist upon having an answer."

There was a pause; at first no one answered. Jip stood at his mistress's feet, drooping his melancholy head, the centre of a silent and inquiring group. At length, Georgie, with her face flushed and in a loud confident voice, burst out with, "'Twasn't me." The words had scarcely passed her lips, when a deep sepulchral voice, which seemed to rise from the floor, and, as Jip was nearest to the floor, might well be supposed to come from him, pronounced these words, "Georgie cut my hair; Georgie is the guilty one."

Consternation or astonishment was depicted on every face. Georgie nestled closer to her father, but, with mouth and eyes wide open, fixed her gaze upon the dog, as if he were Medusa's head come to turn her into stone.

After a moment's silence, Mr. Burton, looking at his son, said, "Why, Tommy, was that your voice?" Tommy burst into a loud laugh -- the spell was broken. He had made his first public experiment as a ventriloquist, and it certainly had proved a successful one. The surprise and admiration of the assembly were unbounded; poor little Georgie had been terribly frightened, but she soon recovered, and perhaps the lesson. did her good. Tommy was then requested to give a repetition of the performances. Accordingly he placed himself near the door of the room, which was slightly open, when a voice from the outside was heard asking to come in. He answered from the inside in his natural voice, and so a dialogue between the two voices was kept up to the amusement and delight of the audience.

As in the course of this story young Burton will appear again as a ventriloquist, it is better to explain how it happened that he so suddenly acquired this new accomplishment. While at Addiscombe, he had made the acquaintance of a little old man living at Croydon, who in his day had been a comic-singer at theatres and music-halls, and who now, in his retirement, made what money he could by teaching singing in his own style. Tommy took a few lessons by way of perfecting his own comic singing, and soon found that his teacher had been famous once as a ventriloquist as well as a singer. His own capability that way was experimented upon, and it was discovered that with practice he might become a very fair ventriloquist. Now, it is a curious fact that, fond as we know him to have been of fun of any kind, and of practical joking in particular, when he had once acquired this accomplishment he very rarely exercised it, and disliked even to have it known that he possessed such a power. We shall see, however, that on one occasion it enabled him to render a great service to the hero of our story.

CHRISTMAS AT SEA.

THE next scene in George Rolleston's history is laid at Southampton, and represents his embarkation. Winter has come on, and it is now the evening of the 20th of December, in the year 1855. Snow is falling heavily, and it is cold, cold, cold. Cheerless, and miserable, and filthy are the streets; the quay is somewhat cleaner, but most depressing to the spirits is the deep snow and the cold darkness. George Rolleston and Tommy burton are to leave Old England to-night -- are even now standing on the gangway of the PeninsularandOriental Company's Steamer, "Ganges." Myles Rolleston and Mr. Burton accompany the boys on board: they all four came down to Southampton in the morning, and have dined at Radley's Hotel. The two middle-aged men are now bent on seeing the last of the lads as they start on their voyage. Rhoda and Tommy have said their good-bye in London, and a sad one it was; but Tommy has recovered his usual cheerfulness already; he shakes hands bravely with his father, as they stand together on the deck of the steamer, and he even says a last word or two as to the care of his pet animals, which he leaves behind at Dumbleton.

George has few regrets in leaving home. For Mr. Burton and also for Rhoda he has enough affection to feel a little sad at saying farewell; Myles Rolleston, too, and his family he is sorry to leave; but the most pathetic parting he had to go through was with his old nurse, Nora Martin. George had run down to Bymaston with a day ticket, on purpose to bid her goodbye. Poor Nora bewailed herself sadly at his going away -- so entirely away, as it seemed to her -- and perhaps for ever. George did his best to cheer her up, and reminded her of what she told him the year before, when his father died, and he found himself disinherited.

"You told me then to be brave, Nora," he said, "and to keep a stout heart. Besides, what have I to stay in England for? I chose my profession for myself, I chose to go to India: nobody persuaded me into it. I know I shall like it awfully, and I am longing to be off. Some day I shall bring you home a tame elephant to ride upon, and no end of tigers' skins; see if I don't."

And giving his old nurse a good hug and a kiss, he was off. As she looked after the fly which bore him away, she muttered a prayer for the boy whom she loved as if he were her own. Often, afterwards, when she talked of this parting to her husband, she would say -- "Shure, John, when the young masther came and tould me as how he was going all the way to thim Indies, shure, man, it nigh broke me heart; and the pain tuk me i' the small av me back, and it's a wakeness. I've had there iver since."

It was with a stout heart and a hopeful spirit that George Rolleston now stood on the deck of the "Ganges" as she steamed out of Southampton Water. The ominous bell had just sounded, which gave notice that all outsiders must return on shore. Fathers and mothers, brothers, sisters, lovers, had all embraced for the last time. Myles Rolleston and Mr. Burton have shaken hands with the boys for the third or fourth time. There is a shouting on board, a snorting of the engine, the paddles begin to move, and the huge steamer is speeding on her way.

It was too dark to see the shore on either side: too cold to stay on deck; and by the time they were in the Solent, George and Tommy had descended into their cabin, which they were to share with two more cadets, who were also going out to Madras. One of these was a red-haired youth, with light prominent eyes, very much resembling a prawn in appearance, who had evidently determined to go in for sea-sickness; and had already settled himself in his berth with a basin handy. The other was a long-legged, long-nosed, and dark-complexioned young fellow of a contradictory and changeable temper. He spent his time in grumbling at his three companions and at the Peninsular and Oriental Company alternately -- at his companions for the room they took, and the room their clothes took; at the Peninsular and Oriental Company for the little room it allowed any of them to take. Gradually the night became stormy, and as the steamer approached the Needles, the captain made up his mind to lie-to until morning. Nevertheless, the "Ganges" that night was shaken and tossed about in a way that surprised our cadets; but it was a mere joke compared to what was coming. At daybreak the port-holes were shut, the dead lights set, the anchor weighed, and they were out at sea. Our boys were in for it now, and no mistake. Although the ports were closed, occasionally a wave would sweep down the companion ladder, and after roaming about the saloon, find its way into the cadet's cabin, when the bad-tempered boy, whose name was Jack Hardy, would vent his ill-humour on his three companions, as if they could help it, and as if no other cabin was deluged in like manner.

So dawned their first morning at sea. Tommy Burton, who being in an underberth had been more favoured by the intrusive waves than the others, rose and shook himself like a great Newfoundland: but he tried in vain to stand -- he certainly had not found his sea-legs yet. At last he managed to stagger across and have a look at George, who was showing a very white and troubled face over the side of his berth. George was drenched and miserable, but the sight of Tommy's round, jolly face cheered him up; and they both set to work, as well as they were able, to dress. Peter Dwyer, the red-haired cadet, lay prone meanwhile in his berth, terribly sea-sick, and uttering such groans as might have come from some poor tortured wretch, who was broken on the wheel. Jack Hardy, with an expression of intense disgust on his face, growled at him from the opposite berth, telling him not to make such a beast of himself.

Out into the saloon rolled Tommy and George, knocking themselves about and losing their legs every minute. Still they thought it would be better to struggle up on to the deck if they could. Flattening their caps down on their heads, the two boys fought their way up, George going first. He had just reached the top step, when the ship gave a tremendous lurch, and losing his balance, he was thrown forward, head first, against something round and soft, while a loud oath struck upon his ears, accompanied by a gurgling sound. Recovering himself, he found that his head and the capacious waistcoat of a very fat man had come in contact.^ The man was evidently very angry, but as he had lost his wind, and the ship had found too much -- for it was whistling and howling all round them -- George was not much the wiser for his angry words. Nor was his anger allayed probably by Tommy, whose face just then appeared above the gangway, and who cried out -- "Got the best of it that time, George. A jolly soft pillow!"

What a sight it was for lads who until that time had been mere land-lubbers. The ship was struggling bravely onwards, while the waves seemed to raise their crests higher and higher as they bore down upon her, or now and then recoiling for a moment, as if to gather fresh strength, they dashed back again with greater fury than before. Angry savage spirits seemed to be raging round that frail ship, longing to tear the planks asunder and destroy the living breathing atoms there. All round them, as they stood clinging to each other, boiled the maddened sea -- miles upon miles of angry water lashing itself to greater fury every instant. George drew a long breath, and his eyes sparkled; he felt a strange excitement -- a sense of restless, wild exultation in sympathy with the marvellous grandeur of the mighty troubled ocean. And who, that has ever seen a storm at sea, has not felt the pulses beat and the nerves thrill as George's did?

George had scarcely a moment, though, for the indulgence of such feelings. A mountain of water raised the "Ganges" on its bosom for a moment; the poor ship quivered and shook, her paddles working wildly in the air, and then she was cast off like a worthless thing, and buried in the valley that lay beyond. As she panted and struggled in the trough of the furious sea, another mountain wave seemed about to raise her up, but changing his mind at the last moment, drew back instead, and with a tremendous roar, and hissing and spouting foam into the air, broke upon the ship. George and Tommy Burton are knocked down flat upon the deck, drenched to the skin; their mouths and eyes and ears all full of water. Sputtering and choking they struggle up only to roll over again. Two sailors come to their rescue, and they are helped up, and ordered to go below.

"That last sea we shipped," roars out one of the tars in George's ear, "was a'most too much. The hatchways must be battened down; so you young gents had better be off down the companion, and thank your stars as you wasn't overboard just now."

Down they went, looking like poor drowned rats, into the saloon, where they found a few lucky people who were not sea-sick, about to partake of what certainly did not look like a very cheerful repast. In spite of the large number of passengers on board, there were only eight persons assembled at breakfast, including the captain, purser, and doctor of the ship. Nor could the latter strictly be said to be present, for he was here one minute and gone the next, he had so many patients to attend to. Melancholy sounds were heard on all sides from the adjoining cabins; babies cried, ladies scolded, and now and then a deep-toned voice was heard to falter out some very strong language.

The next few days were miserable ones for our boys. The "Ganges" was tossed and buffeted from wave to wave, and, as Tommy said, they all had a good taste of "The Bay of Biscay, O!" a song which he attempted one evening to sing, by way of cheering up his brother cadets. His music was cut short, however, by a boot, which was thrown viciously at his head by Jack Hardy. For four days the storm raged, and the good ship was obliged to stand out into the Atlantic to avoid being driven too near the shore. Curing these four days, George and Tommy scarcely left their berths, except just to stagger into the saloon to get sustenance enough to keep them alive; they were neither of them actually seasick, but you, who have never been four days at sea in a gale of wind, and kept below as George Rolleston and Thomas Burton were, can have no idea of what they suffered. The confined air, the uncertainty about the position of things outside, and the feeling of lightheadedness caused by seeing everything about you perpetually rising and falling -- all combine to produce intolerable weariness, nausea, and headache. The fat man, into whose waistcoat George had planted his head, and who proved to be an indigo-planter, bound for Ceylon, was always present at meals, and eyed George wrathfully whenever he came under his notice. There was one lady too, and but one, who showed during this time. She was a tall angular person of about forty years old, who was going to Calcutta to join her husband, an army surgeon; she had been through many perils and dangers in her time, and boasted that she had never once lost nerve. Many were the adventures of which she was the heroine; and, in short, she gave the company assembled round the table to understand that she could ride, shoot, or swim with any of them.

At length, on the morning of Christmas-day, the storm began to abate, and a few of the passengers ventured up the companion-ladder(which, by the way, was a good-sized staircase), and soon upon each step might be seen seated some pale-faced passenger, breathing in the fresh salt air and occasionally a little water too, for the spray still broke like rain over the deck. That evening quite a merry party assembled at dinner, and, for the first time, the good fare which is provided on board the Peninsular and Oriental Company's steamers was done justice to. There was a famous Christmas dinner -- no better could they have had on shore; and George and Tommy, who had been on deck in the afternoon, came down with the appetites of young wolves. They felt quite like old sailors after their four hard days at sea, nor were they disturbed because the turkeys tried to fall off the table, or because the plum-pudding rolled into the fat gentleman's lap. It made only the more fun to see how lively all the eatables and drinkables became.

The passengers kept it up later than usual in the saloon that night, an hour's grace being given by the purser ere the lights were put out. All were inclined to be merry after their recent sufferings; songs were sung, and much laughing went on during the evening. Before going to their berths, the boys went up on the deck to look at the night. It was very dark, no moon or stars to be seen, and although the storm of the last few days had subsided, there was still plenty of wind, and black mountains of water were rolling on in the darkness, following each other for ever; while the ship strained as she rose and fell in the long sweep of the Atlantic. A little later, and the cadets were sleeping peacefully in their cabin, and the other passengers had all gone to rest. The captain had been below to take his glass of grog, and then, mounting the companion for the last time, had retired to his cabin on deck; all was settled for the night on board the "Ganges."

George Rolleston has slept for about an hour when he starts up, awakened by a loud shouting overhead. "Stop her! in God's name stop her!" is heard above the roaring and dashing of the wind and waves. "Back her! back her!". cries the captain. In one moment sounds of confusion are heard on all sides; every passenger on board seems to have been roused and startled by the captain's voice. George and the three other cadets, slipping on such garments as they find handy, run out of their cabin into the saloon. All the cabin doors on either side are open, and the inmates are pouring forth from between the red curtains which hang before the entrances. A stream of strangely-clad beings of both sexes hustle one another till they get to the companion-ladder. As George reaches the deck, he comes into violent contact with some one, and, turning his head, he beholds the surgeon's wife, "who never lost nerve in her life," standing beside him, shaking like an aspen. Such had been her confusion of mind in rushing from her cabin, that the only addition she had made to her usual night gear consisted of a large sun-hat, which was tightly jammed upon her head. Just in front of George is his fat acquaintance, also scantily clothed, who in a faint voice murmurs, "Run down, by Jove!" Then George perceives looming through the mist a gigantic dark object bearing down upon the hapless "Ganges." The engines are reversed, the paddles working backwards, but surely it is too late! On she comes, a large sailing-vessel, tearing over the great waves, and borne by the wind right upon the steamer. No lights are to be distinguished on the approaching ship. The look-out on board the "Ganges" had not discovered the danger until a collision seemed inevitable. George stared at the great monster, towering up into the sky as she came on riding them to death. There could be little doubt as to the fate of those on board the "Ganges" if the crash should come. For a moment no one spoke, and hardly breathed. The paddles are working bravely, but the sailing-vessel never alters her course, and in another minute her bow will be crashing over the deck of the steamer.

CHAPTER XIII.

A PLUNGE INTO THE MEDITERRANEAN.

GEORGE involuntarily closed his eyes, and held his breath. He heard a loud crash and a grating sound, followed by screams from the women near him -- from the strong-minded lady louder than any. The steamer trembled like a living creature, swerved over to one side, and then righted herself -- none the worse except for the loss of her bowsprit and her figure-head; the latter being a lovely white woman, with a vase raised in her arms, intended to represent the River Ganges. Every one drew a deep breath with a great sigh of relief: they had passed through three or four minutes of such agonizing suspense as no language can describe, and which might count for years of ordinary suffering, sorrow, or sickness. And so the danger was over; and a wonderful escape it had been. Had the sailing-vessel but struck the steamer on the side, the latter must have gone down with passengers and crew; and then this story would never have been written.

The next morning, one or two of the passengers set on foot a subscription to present the captain with a memorial. Nearly eighty pounds was collected; and a piece of plate was afterwards purchased and presented to him, having engraved upon it an eulogium on his valour and presence of mind, as shown upon this occasion. There were two or three old Indian officers on board who did not at all acquiesce in the propriety of this subscription; and George Rolleston heard one say to another: "Gad, sir, in my opinion the captain and whole crew ought to be fined, sir -- yes, sir, fined -- for endangering our lives in this way." To which the other, in reply, suggested that a touch of the cat-o'-nine-tails would be a more suitable punishment. However, the majority chose to make a hero of the captain, and cheerfully gave their money for the memorial. Thus happily ended the first peril George encountered on his voyage.

A day or two later, to the joy of every one on board, the "Ganges" passed out of the Atlantic into the Mediterranean. Tommy Burton had gone on deck before breakfast, when the rock of Gibraltar was just sighted; and he came down beaming with delight, as he called out to George, "Hurray, for the old Rock of Gib! Come along and look at him; we shall be ashore in no time." Breakfast was hurried over by every one. Every one was cheerful and amiable; it was astonishing to see the effect which the prospect of a few hours on shore had upon the passengers. The ladies wore gay dresses and bright smiles, and all went merry as a marriage bell. The sea was of a bright deep blue, calm and beautiful; the air delightfully soft. Who could have thought they were in mid-winter, and that but one little week had passed since the bitter cold they had left behind them in England.

Rounding Carnero Point, the vessel slowly glided into the beautiful bay, where they found themselves in the centre of a medley of ships of all sorts and sizes, and of every nation in the world. They were two days behind their time, owing to the heavy weather they had met with; so the captain warned them to make the most of their time ashore, as the steamer would be off again directly she had done coaling.

In a few minutes the "Ganges" was the scene of tremendous confusion. People coming on board, people hurrying on shore; and such a Babel of tongues as the boys had never before heard. How impatient they were to be landed! The purser, a jolly, good-natured man, became their companion on shore; and the few hours they spent at Gibraltar were about the pleasantest of their voyage. The strange semi-tropical appearance of things and people, the delightful climate -- so different to the cold darkness left behind in old England, and the pleasant sense of being on shore for the first time after such a bout of it at sea -- all helped to make them feel light-hearted, interested, and amused. They took a drive in a carriage exactly like an Irish car, which they were not a little surprised to find at Gibraltar; and crossing the neutral ground -- as the isthmus which joins the promontory to the mainland is called -- drove into Spain, just for the sake of saying they had been there; then returned with excellent appetites to lunch at an hotel. It was nearly sunset when they took to their boat again to row on board; and they saw the African shore, with its giant mountains, in the distance, glowing and changing under the setting sun. As it grew dark, the vessel steamed out of the harbour. George stood upon the deck and watched the bright specks of light, from the lamps and lighted windows of the houses, gradually appearing like stars on the dark face of the great rock. It seemed as if the rock were hollow, and lighted up inside, with numerous holes pierced in its surface, through which the brightness shone.

And now they are off again; but what a change is this from their former experience of the sea! The Mediterranean is calm and still, and as beautiful in its repose as the Atlantic was grand in its fury. The days passed now happily enough. The passengers were sociable and friendly with each other, and the deck of the "Ganges" became a lively promenade. A large awning was put up during the day, and people sat under it, working, reading, and talking. Then in the evening, the young ones danced; and on one occasion theatricals were got up by a few of the most enterprising spirits, to the great delight of Tommy Burton, who took a prominent part in the performance.

But one afternoon a scene occurred in the drama of real life, which nearly proved a tragedy, and in which George was an actor. He was leaning upon the bulwarks, gazing into the distance at the coast of Algiers, which they were passing. He could see quite plainly the bay with the villas standing around it; and, farther off, the ragged, irregular headlands of Cape Faroe, and the promontory of the seven capes. Tommy Burton, for a wonder, was not at his elbow; but there stood near him a nurse with a child in her arms. George, happening to glance that way for a moment, was attracted, not by the nurse, who was a plain, large-faced, fair, and freckled Englishwoman, but by the child she carried in her arms. I am afraid boys in general -- and George was not an exception to the rule -- have dull eyes and cold hearts where babies are concerned; but he could not help looking twice at the little angel face that was turned towards his own. It was that of a lovely little baby-girl, not much more than a year old.

The nurse, who was of a talkative disposition, seeing George look at her charge, took advantage of the opportunity to open a conversation at once.

"She is a weight, to be sure! I'm fair worn out, that I am, a-trapesing up and down the deck with her; and yet missus will have me be up here. Lor, if I'd known what it was to come to these foreign parts, I'd have thought twice before I'd ever have started. What with the sickness in the rough sea, and the 'eat in the smooth, and halltogether, I'm dead tired of it already, and so I am. I'm that weak still from them hawful nights and days in the Bay of Biscuits, as I can't 'ardly bear my own weight, let alone the baby's. I must ease my arms a bit."

So saying the foolish woman sat the baby on the bulwarks, holding her at the same time.

It immediately struck George that the little thing was in a very unsafe position, and he said, "I tell you what, you had better look sharp after her, and hold her tight."

The baby was now close to his side, and was laughing and crowing in his face. He talked to it a little in rather an awkward fashion, and then turned away. He had scarcely done so when he heard a piercing shriek from the nurse. The child had fallen overboard! In one second, without hesitation, or a moment's thought, George had placed his hands upon the bulwarks, and had vaulted over into the Mediterranean, just as he would have vaulted over a gate. He was in the water almost as soon as the child, but the steamer was moving so fast, that, when he rose to the surface from his first plunge into the blue depths, he saw the little bundle of white clothes many yards away from him.

A few strokes brought him to the spot. The poor little creature's face was under the water, and she was on the point of sinking a second time, when he clutched her, and placed her on his shoulder, with her head well above the surface. She made no sound or movement; whether she was dead, or only insensible, he could not tell. Then he looked towards the ship for help. In that little time the "Ganges" seemed to have gone almost a quarter of a mile away, but she had stopped, and he saw a boat being lowered in all haste. In two or three minutes more the boat reached him, and he and the baby were taken in: the ship's doctor had come out in the boat as well as Colonel Dunbar, the child's father. The former said at once, to George's great relief, that she was not dead. "Pull away, my men," he cried; "all depends upon time;" and each sailor put out his strength as if it were his own child whose life was at stake. The salt water oozed from her little mouth, but she showed no sign of returning animation. The doctor, carrying her in his arms, was foremost as they scrambled on board the ship again, and he rushed with her down below to try the application of stimulants and warmth.

The next few minutes were passed in anxious suspense by all on board; every one, even the roughest sailor there, showed an interest in that fragile life. Then suddenly the good news spread from one to another that the doctor said the little one would recover. When George heard this, he felt, to his own surprise, that the tears were in his eyes. At that moment Colonel Dunbar, who had hardly spoken to him in the boat, so occupied had he been with the child, came up; and George was so overcome and confused at receiving such warm thanks from this tall, middle-aged gentleman, that he was glad to make his escape to the cabin, saying he must change his wet clothes, which until that moment he really had not thought about. But if he was troubled at receiving the thanks of the father, how much worse was it, half an hour later, when he returned on deck, to encounter Mrs. Dunbar. She was a pretty little woman, only three or four years older than George himself. She was very demonstrative in her gratitude. But I think I must omit all the speeches and protestations she made to George, all the blessings and thanks she lavished on him, as, if they were repeated here, they might possibly pall upon my boy readers.

From this time the Dunbars and George were fast friends, though, as the former were going to Bombay, their routes only lay together as far as Suez. On the evening of the day after that on which this accident occurred, the good ship "Ganges" steamed into the harbour at Malta. The moon was shining brightly, and the captain warned the passengers that the ship would be off again before daybreak; sovthose who wished to land must be satisfied to see all they could by moonlight. Accordingly, Colonel and Mrs. Dunbar, George and Tommy, went on shore together; they walked through the curious narrow streets, with tall houses rising on each side, whose projecting roofs almost touched each other. They looked at the cathedral, and regretted the impossibility of entering to see the old tombs of the Knights of St. John at that hour; and they could not, for the same reason, see the collection of armour in the Palace.

Standing in the soft dreamy moonlight outside the gates of the cathedral, they talked of the exploits of these Knights of St. John. Colonel Dunbar recalled all he had read of their history. First speaking of their origin as military monks, devoting themselves to the deliverance of the Holy Sepulchre, and to perpetual war against the Infidels; then, of the period of their power, ambition, and corruption, when they were enriched by donations of castles and manors in most parts of Europe, besides having a share of the conquests in the Holy Land. He described how this period came to a close, with their expulsion from Palestine, at the time of the capture of Acre by Sultan Khalil and his Mamelukes; and how, retiring from Palestine to Rhodes, they helped to retard the establishment of the Ottoman power in Europe by resisting for more than two centuries every attempt made to dislodge them from the island. Driven from it at last by superior force, they settled at Malta, which was given to them by the Emperor Charles V., in the sixteenth century, and here, when besieged by the Turks, they fought with great heroism and success. This exploit closed their career of military glory. From that time their vow of perpetual hostility to the Infidels found vent only in insignificant encounters at sea with the Mahometans of the coast of Africa, which gradually subsided as such warfare became more and more unsuited to the ideas of modern Europe.

And so the Dunbars and the two lads passed a pleasant couple of hours, chatting and sauntering about the town and harbour; and would have remained longer, but Mrs. Dunbar was nervous at having left her baby; though, by-the-way, it was left in the care of a lady -- a fellowpassenger, and not in that of the nurse. However, she found the little creature quite safe when she returned on board.

Another three days and the passengers on board the "Ganges" are looking out eagerly to catch sight of the city of Alexandria, which they are fast approaching. Among the first objects to meet the eye are the tall eight-winged windmills, which are scattered along the shore, and grind corn for the inhabitants of the city. About the same time Pompey's Pillar, Cleopatra's Needle, and the Lighthouse become visible; while a few towers and minarets make their appearance rather more in the background. But the land is so low that all these objects seem at first as if they rose out of the sea. Alexandria afforded the first glimpse of Oriental life: the strange costumes, the strings of camels in the streets, the veiled women riding on donkeys, all covered up in a hideous blue garment, hiding not only the figure, but the head and face, with the exception of the eyes, which peep through two little holes; the glittering white houses, the groves of date-trees and palms -- all formed a scene in which, George thought to himself, the characters of the Arabian Nights might have walked and acted. Such an association of ideas, however, was very quickly put an end to as he stepped into a comfortable railway carriage with the Dunbar family and Tommy Burton; and the engine went hissing and puffing across the desert.

The train rushed into the Cairo station at about two o'clock in the morning. The passengers by the boat from Marseilles having arrived before those from Southampton, the hotels were nearly full, and the two boys had to rough it for the night in a sitting-room with several other gentlemen, resting on chairs and sofas. In vain they tried to sleep, and with the first glimpse of dawn, sallied forth into the great square of Cairo. As they stood there looking about and admiring the rows of acacia-trees, they saw bearing down upon them a line of great camels, looking like walking mountains, with their enormous packs balanced on each side of them, just starting, probably, for a journey through the desert. As they sauntered on, they sometimes found themselves in streets so narrow, and with such projecting balconies, that they could scarcely catch a glimpse of the sky overhead. At last they came to the Bazaar, where the shopkeepers were lazily putting out their wares, and smoking their pipes the while, with an air of apathy and unconcern. Here people were to be seen of all shades -- from the hideous coal-black negro to the light-yellow Egyptian. Presently, as they strolled along, a jingling of bells struck upon their ears, and a set of nimble donkeys, intended for hire, came trotting up. Tommy insisted upon having a ride, but he played such tricks upon the poor donkey's back -- generally sitting with his face to the tail, and using that appendage as a bridle -- that he and the donkey soon came to open warfare. A desperate struggle followed, which ended by his being ignominiously thrown off; but the donkey overbalancing himself in the effort, the two rolled in the dust together, to the astonishment and amusement of a crowd of lookers-on.

After this misadventure the boys hurried back to the hotel, and when they had breakfasted went out again with Colonel and Mrs. Dunbar, as they had still some hours to spare before starting for Suez. They passed several large and beautiful mosques. One they entered -- though they were obliged to leave their boots at the doorway -- and found it rich with mosaic pavement, marble columns, and gilding. They also went to see -- what traveller does not? -- the spot where Emir Bey leaped his horse from the ramparts of the citadel. This incident happened in 1811. Mahomed Ali had some reason for suspecting that the Mamelukes were conspiring against his government. He invited about four hundred of them to a conference, shut them up in the courtyard of the castle, and had them shot down from loopholes and windows. Emir Bey was the only one who escaped, and though his horse was killed by the fall, he saved his own life, and rendered himself famous.

But if I linger in this way on the road, you will think that I am never going to give an account of George's doings in India, so I must just tell you briefly that the whole party went on that afternoon to Suez, where George parted with the Dunbars, the latter embarking in a different steamer for Bombay from that which took the cadets to Madras. George and his new friends parted with many professions of friendship on each side, and promises to keep up a correspondence. The "Abyssinia," the vessel on which George embarked, was a screw-steamer, much larger and handsomer in every respect than the "Ganges:" but he had not been many days on board when he discovered that she had a very grave fault -- she was infested with cockroaches. This was quite a serious trouble to George, for though he had plenty of pluck, as we know, yet he had the greatest horror of creeping things. Now do not laugh at him, boys. I can tell you that one of the finest, bravest men I know cannot see a spider without shuddering. Fancy, then, what poor George must have suffered when he was actually awakened one night by cockroaches biting his toenails. Of course Tommy soon came to his assistance, who did not mind any of those nasty things; in fact, rather liked them, as you may imagine from his making a pet of a toad.

Although it was the month of January, the heat in the Red Sea was stifling. George and Tommy Burton used to spend their days gasping like young fish out of water; but when the night came on, and a slight breeze rose to fan them back to life, they thought all they had suffered in the day was made up for by the wonderful beauty of the tropical night. The two boys often talked together of their future, of the hunting adventures they hoped to undertake together, and the fighting they trusted might be in store for them. "Another jolly Sikh war is the sort of thing I should like," said Tommy. This was the beginning of the year 1856. How little he thought, when talking thus lightly, that the future was pregnant with a great undreamed-of horror; that in another year a fearful struggle would convulse India -- a whirlwind pass over the land, of which even then the gusts and eddies were rising! into the Indian Ocean steamed the "Abyssinia," and the next place at which she touched was Galle, in Ceylon. When George went on shore there, he was surrounded by itinerant vendors of two kinds of merchandise -- some selling umbrellas of all shapes, sizes, and colours; others offering what appeared to be most splendid precious stones at marvellously low prices. George was astonished to hear the captain, who had also come on shore, say of the latter, that he believed they were only glass, and manufactured at Birmingham.

Aden was soon reached, where the vessel touched to take in coal, and where numbers of the grotesque-looking natives came swimming out to the steamer. Their hideous black faces were surmounted by a quantity of hair, which was dyed either white or scarlet, according to the taste of the owner. They swam round, calling out to those on board, "Be so kind, one little sixpence drop; diver soon fetch him." And, to George's astonishment, he had scarcely dropped a small coin over the side, and seen it disappear under the water, when the diver came up from the depths below, bearing it in his hand. Then out through the Straits of Babelmandeb into the Indian Ocean steamed the "Abyssinia," and the next place at which the touched was Galle, in Ceylon. When George went on shore there, he was surrounded by itinerant vendors of two kinds of merchandise -- some selling umbrellas of all shapes, sizes, and colours; others offering what appeared to be most splendid precious stones at marvellously low prices. George was astonished to hear the captain, who had also come on shore, say of the latter, that he believed they were only glass, and manufactured at Birmingham.

Early in February, the "Abyssinia" is riding in the Madras roadstead. Crowds of mussulah boats are hovering round her, having braved the dangers of the surf; a hum of strange tongues is heard on all sides; black faces and large turbans are seen in every direction, and extreme paucity of clothing seems to be the order of the day, Under the clear blue cloudless sky lies the fair city of Madras, its polished white buildings glittering in the sun, and below is the bright sandy beach washed by the foaming surf.

CHAPTER XIV.

CATCHING A THIEF.

A SERGEANT came on board to meet the four cadets. When they had shaken hands with the captain, and such of their fellow-passengers as they had known the best, they were in a hurry to enter the boat; but the sergeant, who was a very stiff, upright old Scotchman, with a solemn countenance, put out his brawny arm, stopping them.

"Na, laddies," he said, "adune then. This impetuosity is no becoming at ony while, and least of all when about to encounter yonder surf. Gae gently, and foller me." Saying which, he made his way the first down the ladder into the boat, and was followed by the cadets.

The "Abyssinia" was riding at anchor outside the formidable surf, which, even in calm weather, breaks upon the shore at Madras. Large boats, called mussulah boats, are constructed expressly for the purpose of crossing this surf; they are built with high sides, the planks are sewn together with coir twine, no nails or iron clamps are used in making them, and this renders them not only light, but very elastic, and less liable to break when cast upon the shore. George is sitting near the stern of the boat, whose sides he could just look over, and he perceives that they are closely followed by two catamarans. Now these catamarans consist sometimes of one log of wood, sometimes of three, lashed together side by side; they are curved upwards at the foreend, and are paddled by either one or two natives, who contrive to sit upon them in all the raging surf. They are, in fact, a species of raft; the largest are about five-and-twenty feet long, and from two to three wide. The catamarans are following the mussulah closely, so that, in case it should be upset, they may catch the unlucky passengers before a shark can help himself to a dainty morsel.

There are two distinct lines of breakers to pass through, and our cadets are now about to encounter the first. The boatmen rest on their oars, and the mussulah is driven furiously forward, with her stern high in the air. For a second it seems an even chance which way she comes down. She quivers, uncertain whether to give it up as a bad job and turn a somersault, like Tommy's donkey, bringing her passengers under her, or to subside like a well-conducted boat, and ride her best to shore. Fortunately for my story she does the latter; and now the boatmen pull hard, shouting, "Hillea, hillea" -- "Pull, pull," at the top of their voices. The boat and her inmates have barely time to right themselves when they are at the mercy of the second surf, which is not quite so bad as the first, and in another minute the prow of the mussulah strikes upon the sand, where a crowd of natives stand ready to drag it up upon the beach.

We need not follow the cadets as they drive through Madras on their way to Fort St. George, where they are duly enrolled on the list of officers belonging to John Company. They are to spend a few days at Palavarum, a small station just out of Madras, until they are appointed to their respective regiments; and while there, Tommy presents, or forwards, several letters of introduction which he had brought from his uncle for people at Madras. Invitations flow in upon him in consequence, not merely to dinner, but often to pay visits of two or three days; and in some of these invitations George is included. After much consideration they make up their minds to accept that of a rich Armenian diamond merchant, at whose house they thought there would be more to satisfy their curiosity than at that of an Englishman. Accordingly, one day they drove to Nangambakam, the fashionable quarter of Madras, where the diamond merchant lived. They found a lovely villa, surrounded by a large garden, or compound, as we call it in India. Passing through the gates, up an avenue lined on either side by banyan and tulip-trees, they pulled up under the portico, on the steps of which stood their host. Mr. Maraboon was a portly little gentleman, with a swarthy complexion and large prominent black eyes. The family consisted, besides the father and mother, of three daughters and two sons. Olive-coloured olive branches were these small young men and women, all cut after the same pattern, with piercing black eyes and ebon tresses. They were all amiable and kind; all rather proud of their father's wealth; all anxious to pass for Europeans, though their father was a native of Erzeroum in Asiatic Turkey; all fond of talking of London and Paris, for they had travelled both in England and France, and all scornful in the extreme of Eastern manners and customs.

The dinner was excellent, though our boys had not been in India long enough to appreciate the luxury and cost of having the table covered with what the natives call "Europe articles." Tommy could not help glancing at the servants who waited at table. There was something queer and uncanny to him in the silent white-robed, large-turbaned figures, standing behind each chair, gliding about on their bare black feet, the toes of which were in most instances covered with silver rings. The room was a large one, and from the ceiling hung three great punkahs. The iced wines and the monotonous movement of the punkahs nearly sent Tom Burton to sleep at dessert, after the ladies had left the room: his eye-lids were just closing, when he was rather startled by hearing George exclaim, in answer to something that Mr. Maraboon was saying,

"It is a wonderful thing, surely, that you have never been robbed."

"Well," answered the old diamond merchant, "I dare say it seems so to you. The fact is, natives will steal all manner of queer odds and . ends, and perhaps a few rupees sometimes, but you seldom find that they rob people of valuable things. Ah, no; my diamonds are safe enough, I believe."

Before dinner he had taken the boys into the workshop, where several natives were busy, cutting and polishing the precious stones. Mr. Maraboon's house was what a native would call an "up-stairey" one; that is, it had a first floor as well as a ground floor to it, which many Indian houses have not, as the servants sleep here, and there, and everywhere in India, those that have not got a "go-down" -- a name given to any kind of outhouse -- to themselves in the compound, lying about at night on the steps and in the verandah. The work-room was an upstairs room, having Mr. Maraboon's own bedroom on one side, and on the other that which Tommy Burton was to occupy. No doubt great precautions were taken for the safe keeping of the more valuable diamonds; but the generality of those on which the men were working during the day, were locked up at night in a closet in the same room in which they worked.

People in India almost always go to bed early, and at a little after ten o'clock the Maraboon family retired to rest. George slept downstairs; so Tommy bade him good-night in the verandah, and then mounted upstairs, the good old diamond merchant showing him to his room. It had two large windows opening on to the upstairs verandah, or balcony; the windows, as is always the case in India, being left wide open, and only the jalousies being closed. Although it was the coolest time of the year, still all these precautions had to be adopted to render the heat endurable. Tommy Burton glanced round his room, on entering, with a look of pleasure. A comfortable bedstead stood in the middle of the matted floor, with its legs standing in tin saucers filled with water to prevent insects mounting up; white gauze mosquito curtains were carefully tucked in all round the bed. Some handsome furniture stood about, and all washing appliances were provided in the bath-room, to which a door opened on the side opposite to that on which the diamond-room was situated.

Tommy was soon in bed, and carefully closing the mosquito-curtains, he settled himself to sleep. Through the bars of the jalousies he could see the bright streaks of moonlight, which made a pattern on the matted floor. He was very tired, but he could not help listening to the mosquitoes outside the curtain keeping up a sort of war-song, trumpeting and buzzing round him. Soon he began to find the heat unendurable. Better surely, thought he, to brave the mosquitoes than remain stifling behind this white wall of gauze. Ah, poor deluded Tommy! In another moment the curtains were untucked, and thrown up on to the wooden framework above the bed. Tommy turned his pillow, and rested his head upon the cool side. He was just going off to dreamland, when a song which had seemed far distant, suddenly sounded right in his ear, and the mosquito alighted to partake of a slight repast. Tommy waited one second, and then dealt himself a tremendous box on the ear. Alas! he got the worst of it. The flying fiend escaped, and with a triumphant blast flew off to tell his comrades of the delicious new arrival, the nice young cadet, fresh from England, lying there at the mercy of the Madras mosquitoes. Again and again did poor Tommy Burton seek forgetfulness in sleep; again and again did his tormentors rouse him.

He was distracted; he had tried everything he could think of, and had quite altered his first opinion that mosquito bites are preferable to suffocating. In fact, he was just thinking of burying his head under the bed-clothes, and keeping it there -- when he noticed that the streaks of moonlight, which he had been watching on the matted floor, were partially obscured. Is the moon going down behind a cloud? thought Tommy. But as the thought crossed his mind, the bright streaks reappeared. Then he glanced quickly from the floor to the window. In another moment the shadow came again, and he saw that it was caused by a man's figure standing outside in the verandah. Tom Burton raised himself in his bed and fixed his eyes upon the blinds. Through one of the openings between the bars, first a hand, and then an arm, were cautiously introduced; black, and naked, and powerful-looking were they. The hand searched for the bolt or hook which secured the blind, and then silently and softly withdrew, after unfastening it. In another moment a black figure glided into the room. Evidently the intruder took it for granted that the bed was untenanted, for he did not even glance towards it, but made his way at once to the door leading into the room where the diamonds were kept. He had timed his visit well, for the moon was on the point of going down, and he had probably waited outside until he knew that darkness was at hand to cover his retreat.

Tommy saw at once that this man was unconscious of his being in the room. Should he holloa out and rouse the house? No! He liked the excitement of the adventure, and thought it would be a fine thing to catch this black thief single-handed. He slipped out of bed. Just then it occurred to him that the thief might have a knife; what should he do in that case? The only weapon he could think of was his sheet, and he took this up in his arms. As noiselessly and swiftly as the naked black feet had sped across the room, so swiftly and noiselessly did the naked white feet follow in their track; and just as the thief bent down to place a key in the key-hole of the door, Tommy adroitly cast the sheet over his head, and twisting it round him, threw him to the ground. The attack was so sudden and unexpected that for the moment the man forgot himself; he thought, perhaps, that some unearthly enemy was behind him, and he uttered groans and yells of a most appalling nature. The noise of the fall, and the groans which followed, speedily brought in Mr. Maraboon with a light in his hand, and in a few seconds the room was filled with native servants, turbanless, and presenting a strange appearance enough with their long black hair hanging dishevelled round them. Just as they arrived upon the scene, the thief, who had recovered his presence of mind, managed to disentangle himself from the sheet. Tommy thereupon made a clutch at the naked body, but, to his surprise, it slipped from his hands easily enough; for, as a preparation for this exploit, it had been carefully oiled with a very evil-smelling oil. Then the man made a rush for the verandah, hoping no doubt to jump or climb over it into the compound. But it was too late; in another moment he was surrounded and captured, when he was recognized as a man who had formerly been employed in the diamond-cutting, and had been dismissed on some suspicion of dishonesty.

Mr. Maraboon thanked Tommy warmly for saving his diamonds. The thief was taken to a "go-down" in the compound, and there locked up safely, to sleep or ruminate upon his evil doings until morning. And then the several members of the Armenian household sought their couches.

The next morning, as Tommy stepped on to the verandah, he heard a strange sort of buzzing noise proceeding from the outside of the house. The buzzing was made by many human tongues chattering in a subdued tone of voice. The sun had not yet risen, and objects were indistinctly seen in the dim light; but when he went out under the portico, he saw a crowd of natives, male and female, advancing up the drive. He turned for an explanation to the butler, who was preparing the chota hasree -- or little first breakfast, consisting of tea or coffee and toast -- on a table in the verandah. The butler grinned, and answered,

"Sahib, these are plenty peoples, plenty relations, father, mother, uncles, aunts, and cousins of that tief what came last night. Dey come to make plenty salaam to master, to beg he will forgib this man; but I don't tink the Sahib, my master, will do so. Plenty tieves and rogues about. I don't tink the Sahib will forgib."

Tommy Burton stood in the doorway; he drew in long breaths of the health-giving breeze, borne from the sea, which every morning seems to bring life back again to the poor exhausted people of Madras. The compound looked very pleasant in the cool, gray light of the early morning; but he could enjoy neither sea-breeze nor anything else with such a sight before him as this crowd of dark, miserable-looking human forms, who, though he pitied them, were not agreeable to any of the senses. Presently Mr. Maraboon, and the younger members of the family, all prepared for the morning ride, made their appearance. The unhappy troop of natives, on catching sight of the diamond merchant, gave vent to the most dismal howls. The few who possessed shoes instantly kicking them off, the whole party salaamed so profoundly that they touched the ground with their foreheads. Then a spokesman came forward and seemed to talk very eloquently, with much gesticulation and expressive gestures. However, the diamond merchant turned a deaf ear to their entreaties, and the whole party retired from the compound tearing their hair and what little clothing they possessed.

George Rolleston and the younger Maraboons happening to sleep in another part of the house, had not heard till the morning of Tommy's adventure. Now he is overwhelmed with thanks and praises; and feels rather glad when they are all ready to mount their horses, and ride off to the beach. The sight and smell of the long waves, which came sweeping in, capped with their white crests, and the sound of the thundering surf, refreshed and exhilarated our two boys after the closeness of the night. But these pleasant, invigorating morning rides at Madras do not last long, and within an hour after sunrise the riders are driven in again by the heat. During the afternoon, when the customary siesta, indulged in by all Anglo-Indians, was over, and just as the diamond merchant and his family were again gathered in the verandah, preparatory to their afternoon drive, a party of jugglers and snake-charmers came up the compound. Touching the ground with their foreheads, they asked if they might be allowed to perform, and at once received the required permission. I know that many travellers have written about the doings of Indian jugglers; nevertheless, I must describe just two tricks, which are certainly very wonderful, and quite cast into shade all the performances of European wizards. There was plenty of throwing up and catching of balls and knives, and swallowing of swords; but all this I pass over to come to the basket trick and that of the mango-tree.

A stern-looking old man, dressed in a singularly airy get-up, seizes upon a small boy, also of the juggler's party, and doubling him up as you would truss a chicken, ties him neck and crop with a stout rope till it seems as if he could not possibly move arm or leg. Then he puts the boy into a strong basket just large enough to hold him, and shuts down the lid. This basket is placed on the smooth open gravel space at the foot of the steps leading from the verandah, and there is no bystander within half a dozen yards of it. The savage-looking old man next takes up a sword, and deliberately thrusts it into the basket, through and through; the most piercing shrieks follow, and the sword is drawn out dripping with blood. The thrust is repeated again and again; the old man seems to work himself into a furious passion; he yells and shouts as he thrusts harder and harder, while more heart-rending screams come from the basket. Suddenly he stops, resumes his calmness, and lifts up the lid. The basket is empty. At that moment a boy -- seemingly the same -- appears, safe and well, running up from among . the bystanders to the foot of the steps, and both man and boy salaam profoundly to the ladies and gentlemen in the verandah.

The trick of the mango-tree is quite as incomprehensible. The same old man, who was, in fact, the chief performer, planted a mangostone in a little hole which he dug in the sand; then he threw in the sand again over it, watered the place, covered it with a small inverted basket, muttered some mystic words, and announced that in a few minutes it would grow into a tree. To amuse the company during its growth, a couple of large baskets were brought forward, round which he executed a strange sort of dance, playing the while on a curious reed or pipe a mournful and unmelodious sort of wail. Presently the lids of the baskets were raised from within, and from the larger of the two protruded the great flat head of an enormous rock-snake, which drew its huge coils further and further out of its basket, and sliding slowly along the ground, began winding itself round the body of the snake-charmer. It was nearly twenty feet long, and kept coiling itself round and round him, while he played away lustily upon his pipe. The lid of the second basket was more slowly uplifted, but gradually the wicked-looking head of a cobra appeared through the opening. Spreading out its hood and rearing itself up, it began swinging backwards and forwards in time to the music, its forked tongue darting in and out of its mouth. The spectators gazed with a mixture of horror and curiosity at this hideous, unnatural dance, and were not sorry when it came to an end, which was as soon as the old man ceased playing. The charm was then over, the rock-snake began to uncoil, and soon retreated to his basket, and the cobra, closing his spectacled hood, ceased his weird dance.

Twice, while this snake performance was going on, had one of the jugglers lifted up for a moment the basket which covered the mango-stone, and he showed the first time that small green leaves were just sprouting from the sand; a few minutes later he raised it a second time, and a well-developed little mango-tree appeared. But when the snake-charming was over, and those creatures had returned to their nests, the old man himself lifted up the basket, and, behold! the little tree had made the most of its time, for it already bore a goodly show of fruit. Then he plucked it up, and exhibited roots that had struck into the ground. This ended the performance.

On the following day our cadets were obliged to return to Palavarum, having passed two days at the old diamond merchant's hospitable house. During that time Tommy Burton had contrived to catch a bad cold, and coughed, and sneezed and grumbled exceedingly; he thought it very hard that, living in an oven, as he called Madras, he should suffer from the ailments common in dear chilly old England. But the truth is that people have worse colds, rheumatisms, and toothaches in burning India than in our cold, damp climate. The whole Maraboon family felt an interest in Tommy, and looked upon him as a hero. Mrs. Maraboon's maternal heart was quite distressed about his cough, and what with her persistent recommendations of all kinds of remedies, and Mr. Maraboon's perpetual praises of his courage and cleverness in catching the thief, Tommy at last felt quite uncomfortable. Just as he had followed George into the bullock bandy which was to take them away, and after an affectionate leave had been taken of the whole family, Mr. Maraboon ran down the steps, put his hand in at the door, seized Tommy's, and shaking it warmly pressed into it, and left there, a small paper packet, saying at the same time -- "Take these, my dear young friend, and believe always in my warm friendship."

As Tommy pressed the little packet in his hand, he felt that it contained some small hard substances. He turned to George with a beaming countenance, and cried out -- 

"Hurrah! what a jolly old boy! He has given me some of his diamonds."

He eagerly opened the packet, and beheld -- some cough lozenges.

CHAPTER XV.

A GOOD BAG OF GAME.

OUR two young cadets were appointed to do duty with the same regiment, much to their satisfaction; and we will follow them on their journey from Madras to Bellary, where they are about to join the Madras Light Cavalry. Five days and nights have they been upon the road already, or rather five nights only, for the days have been passed in dawk bungalows.

Let us look in at the dawk bungalow at Gundlur, and see what they are about. It is twilight. Tommy has declared so positively that he will have a night's sleep in a bed, that George has given in, and they have decided to rest a day and night on their journey. Perhaps it is better to describe here what dawk travelling means. It is, in fact, Indian post travelling, relays of horses or bullocks being provided along the road; and a dawk bungalow is a sort of post-house, maintained by the government, where these relays are kept, and where travellers rest on their way, get beds and baths, and can have meals prepared. The accommodation and attendance are very meagre, but Anglo-Indians almost invariably travel with their own servants; and at each bungalow a book is kept in which the traveller is expected to write down his remarks upon the state in which he finds it, and the conduct of the man in charge. The carriage used in travelling is called a bandy in Madras, a gharry in Bengal. It resembles an omnibus in shape, only much smaller; at the sides are Venetian blinds to let in the air, and there is a double roof as a protection from the heat of the sun. The driver sits in front, with a projecting roof over his head.

Our cadets have chosen Gundlur as their resting-place because their native servants -- for each had provided himself with a dressing-boy before leaving Madras -- declare it to be famous for the abundance of large game in the neighbourhood. Native servants are well aware how foolhardy young Englishmen usually are when they first arrive in India, and how anxious to encounter terrible beasts of all descriptions; besides, natives, as a rule, are fond of inciting others to danger which they have no taste for themselves. Gundlur is a large village, and very unhealthy, owing to malaria from the jungle; but this very jungle accounts for the game which constituted the attraction in the present instance.

Out in the verandah, which is raised some steps above the dusty ground around it, are a couple of easy cane-chairs, and on these are seated the two cadets. There is a little table between them, on which is laid a small and perfectly black clay-pipe, mounted in silver. This, I regret to state, is the property of our friend Tommy, who has early given way to a love of tobacco. Although the sun is down, the air is close and oppressive, and both the cadets feel the weary languor which is one of the worst effects of the climate upon Anglo-Indians, and which, if not struggled against bravely, so often leads to habits that destroy all the energy in a young man's nature. There are lights within the bungalow, where the servants are busy laying out dinner for the young "sahibs," the principal dish being a curry composed of tough chickens, which half an hour before were strutting bravely about the compound. George is as weary as Tom Burton of their journey; the country has been flat and arid, and, had it even been beautiful, so much of the ground was got over in the darkness, that they would not have known much of the scenery they passed through. But what had really made the time seem dull, and pass so slowly, was the lack of adventure on their route up the country. They are in better spirits this evening, I can tell you, though, for they have sent into the village to inquire for a shikaree, that is, a native hunter, to take counsel with him as to the best means of finding game.

"I expect we shall rather astonish the authorities at Bellary," said Tommy, "if we arrive with a man-eater on our bandy."

"We can't expect such luck as that," replied George, "but we'll go in for anything that comes in the way, small or large, in the shape of game. You know, for tiger shooting we ought to post bullocks to attract the beast, and, in fact, we might get into trouble if we attempted anything on such a grand scale as a tiger. No! I vote for bowling over a bear or two, or a cheetar; even a hyena wouldn't come amiss."

"Oh! I'm ready for all things," cried Tommy, "from a flea to an elephant, only we must have some little excitement."

As he spoke a white-robed figure came fluttering into the verandah, and salaaming said, "Will the sahibs see village shikaree now? Plenty peoples ask to show game to the sahibs." The speaker was Riepur, George's servant.

George signified his willingness to have an interview with the shikarees, and accordingly two men, in what Tommy designated as "a very airy get up," appeared from the back of the bungalow, and with them the head man of the village. After much salaaming and more conversation -- a very small portion of which was comprehensible to the cadets, as it was carried on in Telugu, a language spoken in that part of India -- the arrangements for the hunting expedition were settled. As the moon was very late in rising now, and it is impossible to hunt in jungle at night except by the light of the moon, the shikarees proposed that the first part of the night should be spent by the young hunters quietly in the bungalow, and that the party should sally forth in the early morning. To Tommy's anxious inquiry as to the probability of meeting with tigers, the head man of the village replied that about a week before a woman had been carried off by a tiger, and undoubtedly eaten; but neither the tiger nor the remains of the woman had been seen since. The man made a long story of it in his own language, which Marley, Tom Burton's boy, translated to George and his master. The man at last turned up his eyes and gesticulated so violently, continually touching his own arms and legs, and even shedding tears, that George was quite affected.

"Ah, poor man!" he said, "perhaps the woman was some relation. I suppose he is describing now how the horrible beast would tear her to pieces."

But Marley explained: "He plenty sorry for woman, sahib; but he plenty more sorry that her husband, who is this man's brother, cannot find body. That woman, sahib, wearing plenty nice bangles on arms, and rings on fingers and toes. Rings and bangles all gone! Plenty bad job for that woman's family."

Neither George nor Tommy showed as much sympathy with the relatives of the poor woman, on account of their loss of the family jewellery, as the natives seemed to expect. In regard to the tiger himself, they were rather disappointed than pleased to hear the shikarees say that, as he had not been heard of since he carried off the bangles, and rings, and woman, a week ago, he was probably hundreds of miles away at this time.

"That's bad hearing, George," said Tommy. "I should have liked to have potted a pussy, particularly such a bloodthirsty brute as this one seems to be."

"Well," answered George, "you must be satisfied to postpone your tiger-hunting, and take up with more insignificant game. Let's find out what animals we are likely to fall in with."

They pursued their inquiries, and found that in a certain rocky part of the jungle, well known to the shikarees, black bears were plentiful, and that panthers were not unknown there, too. In short, that large game, of almost all kinds, was to be found within two or three miles of the spot where they were then conversing.

The head man of the village took his departure, and the shikarees also disappeared for the time. George and Tommy entered the bungalow, dined, and then set to work to examine their implements of warfare against the beasts of the field.

Before they left England, Sir John McDougal, who was, of course, a great authority on such matters, took them to a first-rate gunmaker's, and made both George and Tom Burton a present of a double-barrelled rifle. Each of them already possessed a smooth-bore gun, but these were coming round by the Cape with their heavy luggage, and they had only their rifles with them on the present occasion. Tom Burton's rifle was a light and convenient one, but George, who apparently had in view from the first to shoot animals which would require very hard hitting, had selected a long and heavy weapon -- a regular bone-breaker, as he was fond of calling it. Tommy had christened it Anna-Maria; why, I don't know, but it always went by this name. Anna-Maria was looked upon by both the lads as a marvel, and she certainly was a handful. She weighed over sixteen pounds, had barrels thirty inches long, and her bullets weighed two ounces. She would carry above a hundred yards point-blank, with the sights folded down. Our cadets were also the happy possessors of hunting knives, constructed after a crafty fashion. The blades were broad, sharp-pointed, and double-edged; and there was a spring in the handle which kept on the sheath, so that the knife would not slip out, and could only be drawn by those who knew the trick of it.

The weapons being thoroughly examined, and found in good order, the boys retired to rest. The bedsteads, or charpoys, which are placed in these bungalows, are very light and easy to move; and George -- who had lain for an hour tossing and tumbling, unable to sleep from the heat, or the mosquitoes, or perhaps from the excitement of looking forward to his hunting expedition -- at last dragged his charpoy out into the verandah. There was a slight breeze here, and the mosquitoes did not trouble him much; so, thinking how he would be the first to wake when the moon got up, he soon dropped off to sleep. He was disturbed by a hot breath upon his cheek, and, as his eyes opened, they met the fiery gaze of another pair of eyes only a few inches from his face. The moon was just rising, and he could see by its light a thick hairy body, supported on rather short legs, standing beside his bed. It was a wild cat who had come prowling about, and was quietly smelling him; perhaps in another minute would have ventured on a taste of him as well. George sprang up, intending to take his rifle and make an end of his midnight visitor, but the wild cat was off in a moment, and he could see it in the moonlight scampering over the open country towards the jungle.

George now thought it time to wake up Tom Burton, and, finding that the two shikarees were already at the bungalow, they had some coffee, and prepared to start at once. George's servant went with them to act as interpreter, so they formed a party of five in all. The shikarees were armed, one with a matchlock, the other with a spear, and both had hunting knives. But their weapons mattered little, as the business of those men is simply to find the game or put it up; they are not expected to kill any animal except in self-defence. They had half an hour's walk before them, across the country, before reaching the jungle, and they had not gone far when they were startled by a strange wailing cry that rose upon the night; it seemed far distant, and was a weird, ghostly, ill-omened sound, like the supposed cry of the banshee. As it approached it resembled the cries of many people together in great distress, or the wail of a number of Irishwomen at a wake. Nearer and nearer it came, and grew louder and louder, until it swelled into a discordant chorus of yells and screams. Then suddenly they saw, tearing over the open space which lay between them and the jungle, a pack of jackalls rushing along in a wild, savage hunt. They watched the dark forms scouring over the moonlit plain; it needed but a spectral rider following the pack to make it seem a vision of a demon hunt. In a short time all disappeared, and the cries grew fainter in the distance, leaving a vague impression of something horrible and unearthly.

Our hunters soon afterwards entered the jungle. Great forest trees threw out their branches overhead, with creepers wreathing round and hanging from them. Banyan-trees with innumerable trunks, peepul and tamarinds, all flourished here, interspersed with the shrubs of the prickly pear and other wild growths, which made a thick and almost impenetrable underwood. Now and then they would hear the wild too-who of an owl and a flapping of wings, and Tommy jumped when the peculiar shrill cry of the flying foxes struck upon his ear. Looking up, they were surprised to see these strange creatures hanging by dozens from the branches over their heads. After struggling bravely for some time through the thick underwood, the shikarees led them to an open space, where the ground became uneven and sandy. This was the dried-up bed of a stream; here and there great boulders of rock obstructed the way as they walked along, but the most knowing of the two shikarees assured them that only a little farther up was a cave, where he had lately discovered that a family of bears resided. Following this man as a guide, the whole party stole along quietly till they came in sight of the mouth of the cave. It was thought probable that the bears were then out, but that they would soon be making their way home from their nightly rambles. The guide said he knew that there were two entrances to this cave (Mr. Bruin's house was a commodious family residence, and had a back door as well as a front one); it was therefore arranged that George, Tommy, and one of the shikarees should remain where they were, concealing themselves as they best could on the bank of the dried-up water-course to keep guard upon the front entrance; while the other shikaree and Riepur, George's servant, should go round to the other side of the rock in which the cave was situated to watch the back entrance, and to give notice if any bear approached.

As George and Tommy settled themselves in their hiding-place, crouching down behind a projecting piece of rock which they could just peep over, the moon was already beginning to look pale, and a slight breeze was rising. The dawn approached, the only hour in the twenty-four in the plains of India when a certain feeling of freshness comes to the poor exile, bringing with it a remembrance of home. They had not been waiting long in their place of concealment, when a dark form was seen slowly emerging from the cover of the jungle, rolling in his gait, walking rather as a man would walk upon all fours, and making direct for the entrance to the cave near to which our cadets were stationed. Slowly and with dignity he came to the edge of the watercourse, descended into the nullah, and walking over the sandy bottom, threading his way amongst the rocks and boulders, came on towards the mouth of the cave. In another instant a smaller bear appeared, following exactly in the footsteps of the first, and directly upon that one's track a third of smaller stature still made its appearance.

"The Three Bears, I declare!" whispered Tommy to George. "I haven't the heart to hurt them -- have you? -- for the sake of Silver Hair."

The largest bear was now within twenty yards of the spot where the lads were hiding, and directly facing them. George made no answer to Tommy's compassionate speech, but raised Anna-Maria to his shoulder, and sent a bullet right into the dirty white patch on the bear's chest. As the report of the gun sounded on the air, the black bear rolled over on his back -- dead, without having time to utter a sound. Poor Widow Bruin was by this time close to her husband, and, unconscious of the extent of her misfortune, she went up to him to console and comfort him, sniffing about and uttering grunts expressive of astonishment and dismay. Meanwhile, the heir of the family, not being of so affectionate a nature, and probably being troubled with delicate nerves, turned round, and ran back again as fast as he could into the jungle, leaving his hapless parents to their fate. Tommy, whose heart had suddenly hardened, and who had become forgetful all in a moment of the nursery tales which delighted his childhood, followed George's example, and fired at the second bear. She was hit, and, throwing herself on her back, gave vent to the most fearful howls. Anna-Maria here gave tongue again, and George emptied the contents of his second barrel into the bear. The troubles of Mr. and Mrs. Bruin were over for ever, and poor young Master Bruin was an orphan from that day.

George and Tommy sprang forward to look at their dead game. Here was a grand night's work; two large black bears bagged without a scratch, or even a moment's danger. The poor beasts had been bowled over like ninepins, and without much more trouble; but now came the difficult part of the business. Neither the cadets nor the shikarees had reckoned upon having such extraordinary good sport; therefore no preparation had been made for carrying back the game to the bungalow. One bear they could have managed to carry hung on poles, but with two it was a different matter. There lay the bears huddled together; the poor widow had fallen, a mass of shaggy tangled black hair, over her defunct lord.

"Now I vote we send into the village for some men to come and carry the bears back," said Tommy. "Let's shout for Riepur and the other shikaree. Or, look here, I'll just go round and fetch them."

Accordingly off went Tom Burton, leaving his rifle on the ground where he had knelt for a moment beside the bears. A few rapid steps and a little clambering brought him to the other side of the rock where Riepur and the shikaree ought to have been; but they were not to be seen. There was light now that came from the east -- the light of the rising sun. First a few fleecy clouds began to blush crimson; then there were fierce flashes of golden light streaming upwards from the horizon; and the change from the cold pale moonlight to the warm glow from the burning mass of fire which was just rising into the sky seemed to take place in a minute. The day broke as Tom Burton looked round for Riepur and the shikaree.

For a minute he stood gazing at the grand sight, and then wondered how it happened that the men had gone away. The jungle grew thick again at a few yards from where he was, and large trees rose up in the midst of it; while close to him was a small pool of water with one tall tree growing at its edge. Happening to glance up into the tree, he saw a large monkey, making dreadful grimaces, and calling, in a troubled and querulous tone of voice, to other monkeys upon lower branches. These were apparently his wife and children; when they had joined him he seemed in a happier frame of mind, and led them up to the topmost branch of all; the mother keeping her little ones clustering round her, the baby on her knee, while the old father still kept watch. Tommy noticed that the monkey continued looking in one direction, its glances of terror and anxiety being always turned towards a particular rock, or rather pile of rocks, lying beyond that in which the cave was situated. He turned round and followed with his own eyes the direction of the monkey's agitated gaze, thinking that the brute had probably discovered Riepur and the shikaree. What did he see, instead of the familiar black faces which he expected, but the crouching form of an immense tiger, just at the side of the heap of rocks!

The tiger was glaring at Tommy, who, for the moment, hardly realized his frightful position. Then the full consciousness of his danger burst upon him; he was conscious of a hundred different things at once. Conscious, even at that moment, of the ludicrous appearance of the monkey chattering and trembling with fear. Conscious of his own fearful helplessness, of his agony of dread at the awful death before him, unarmed, and at the mercy of the horrible beast who was now glaring at him with hungry eyes. The tiger's lips curled up and displayed the hideous fangs beneath. He dared not stir; he knew that at the least movement the tiger would be on him. The beast rose, and advanced slowly and stealthily two or three paces, as if to bring itself within the distance for a spring, like a cat about to pounce upon a bird.

"God help me!" burst from poor Tommy's lips; and the words were scarcely uttered, when a loud ping sounded sharp through the morning air, and the tiger, with an appalling roar, sprang up, and then rolled over and over in the sand.

This sudden and unhoped-for escape, following upon his horror of the death that threatened him, set poor Tommy's brain all in a whirl, and he staggered to the tree that was near him for support; but soon recovering -- 

"God bless Anna-Maria!" he exclaimed, as George came up to him. "I mean, God bless you, old fellow; you have saved my life." And he held out his hand.

George, from the distance, had seen his friend's danger. Luckily he had lost no time in reloading his rifle, and creeping up softly and silently till he was near enough to be sure of his aim, had just waited till the tiger rose, so as to give a chance of hitting him behind the left shoulder. This is the spot to aim at for the heart, and George hit the beast exactly as he intended.

The cadets cautiously approached the huge creature, which a minute before had been so full of life and power. George was unwilling to fire another shot for fear of injuring the skin; but as they came near, it was quite evident that the tiger's struggles were over for ever, and George contemplated his victim with some pride and astonishment. They then sent the shikaree, who was with them -- for Riepur and the other shikaree were still nowhere to be seen -- off to the village to fetch carts to carry away the bodies; which they themselves in the meantime had enough to do to guard from the attacks of vultures. Those horrid birds, scenting blood, soon collected by dozens in the branches of the nearest trees. When the villagers came out with carts and saw the dead tiger, they went nearly mad with delight; for they believed it to be the very one that had carried off the poor woman; and it is known that a tiger who has once tasted human flesh, will always try to get at it afterwards, and generally continues for a long time to infest the same neighbourhood. Those tigers which are supposed to have taken to this immoral practice of devouring human beings are distinguished by the name of "man-eaters."

Our young hunters were starving, and half dead with the heat, when they reached the bungalow. Talking over the morning's adventures while they devoured their breakfast, they agreed that they certainly had succeeded in obtaining a little excitement at last. As for Riepur and the shikaree, it was found upon inquiry that they had come back to the village long before. It turned out that when they went round to the other side of the rock, they had seen the tiger, and made off, before he discovered them. Instead of returning to their companions, they had sought shelter in the nearest jungle; and then, thinking only of their own safety, had run as fast as their legs could carry them till they arrived at the village.

All hunters like to preserve the skins of beasts they have slain, as trophies. A man was found in the village who understood the curing of them, and the tiger and bears were handed over to him. He engaged to send over the skins in a few weeks properly prepared to Bellary; and it is as well to mention here that the result was satisfactory. The skins arrived in a great state of perfection, and were soon sent off to England. So we see that George's promise to Nora of sending her a tiger's skin was kept before he had been many months in India.

This adventure fortunately turned out well; but when the boys reached Bellary, and gave an account of their exploit, I can tell you that the older and wiser people who heard it, shook their heads over it, and thought the lads a couple of foolhardy, rash young fellows, to have gone out after large game in such an irregular fashion.

CHAPTER XVI.

ONE TOO MANY AT DINNER.

IT is the middle of the day at Bellary, hottest of Indian stations. The fierce sun is sending its scorching rays into every nook and corner of the place, while the ground is parched up and rocky, reflecting back the heat into the atmosphere. Sand and rock, rock and sand, everywhere! The only green thing for the eye to rest upon is that eternal cheat and sham, the milk hedge. The first evening that the cadets arrived they were astonished at the strange greenness of the hedges round the compound. "So odd," as George said, "when not a blade of grass is to be seen that the leaves should look so green." Poor deluded George! he had but to go near to find out his mistake. No leaves there, only nasty, twisting, shining stems, a shelter for cobras, and snakelike themselves. Nothing but green tubes filled with milk, a milk that burns and withers what it touches.

George Rolleston and Tom Burton were lucky in finding a bungalow empty, that would suit them both to live in, not far from the mess-house of the Light Cavalry. They have already been a couple of months in their new quarters, and we will have a look at our young friends, and see how they live. The bungalow stands in its compound of about three acres; it consists of a single floor built of brick, and covered with chunam, and looks rather battered and the worse for wear. A few steps lead up to the verandah, which runs round three sides of the building, and out in this verandah squats an unfortunate punkah-wallah, lazily pulling away at the punkah string that is passed through a hole in the wall, dozing and pulling alternately. Tiffen -- that is, lunch -- is preparing in the go-down, or outhouse, that is used as a kitchen; but we will not look in there, nor inquire too closely into the mysteries of that department. We might chance to see sights that were better unseen, like the lady who, thinking she would inspect her kitchen as she might do in England, is reported to have found her cook seated on the ground with a lump of butter stuck on his great toe, from which he was quickly and carefully spreading slices of bread for her afternoon tea.

Opposite the steps leading into the verandah is the door of the house, opening at once into the sitting-room, and, on entering here, the first piece of furniture which catches the eye is the punkah, a huge oblong frame of wood and canvas suspended from the ceiling. The furniture in this room shows signs of having passed through many hands, it is all more or less rickety. There is a large table in the middle of the room covered with heterogeneous articles -- such as books, cigars, soda-water bottles, cards, chessmen and board, and a pair of slippers; the latter belonging to Tommy, and worked by Rhoda, put up there in order to be out of the way of the white ants. There are about half-a-dozen chairs in the room, a couch, and an old piano always out of tune, which had been bought second-hand at a great price. This was Tommy's extravagance, who said he did not wish to neglect his music and singing. There are also a couple of easy cane-chairs, such as are to be seen in every house in India, with the arms prolonged and flattened for the feet to rest upon. A few framed photographs may be seen about the room, and not a few caricatures -- George's artistic work -- are sketched on the wall itself. On each side of the sitting-room is situated a smaller room, one of which is occupied by George Rolleston, the other by Tom Burton; the doors are open, and the two lads are lying, each in a state of partial undress, upon their beds, resting for half-an-hour before tiffen. They have been out during the morning, since parade, paying visits. Presently George jumps up, and crossing the sitting-room to the entrance of Tommy's domain, says, "Well, old boy, do you feel refreshed after your sleep? Will you be able to go out with the hounds this afternoon?"

The words had scarcely passed his lips when the trampling of horses was heard outside, and two young men pushed aside the wet "cuscus" mat which was hanging before the entrance in the verandah; in another moment they stood beside George, all three contemplating Tommy, as he lay upon his bed, half asleep, lazily puffing away at his short black clay. One of the newcomers was a Captain Baillie, of the Fusileers, the only Queen's regiment stationed at Bellary; the other was a Dr. Whitby, an assistant-surgeon in the same regiment. Captain Baillie and Dr. Whitby were fast friends; they were both great sportsmen, and had started together a pack of hounds; that is to say, they had begun with two or three good English dogs -- not really hounds even these -- and had made up the number with native dogs -- pariahs, as they are called. Yet somehow with this strange scratch pack they managed to find, and kill too; there were plenty of foxes about, and the only thing against the general success of the enterprise was the stony nature of the ground, which often damaged the horses. The meet was to take place to-day at a dawk bungalow at Bissanhalli, about four miles out of Bellary; it was fixed for five o'clock, so as to give an hour or two before the sun went down, and darkness came upon the earth.

The four young men were soon seated at tiffen, and they arranged to ride out to the meet together. The horses were now picketed under the shade of a mango-tree, with their gorrawallahs -- horsekeepers -- lying beside them. Dr. Whitby, a small, slight man, was riding a new and large Australian horse, suspected to be of a vicious temper; while Captain Baillie, who was strong and tall, was going to hunt on a stout Pegu pony; and these ponies are generally remarkable for strength, speed, and obstinacy.

Tiffen over, a cigar or pipe and a little chat follow; then the young sportsmen start off to their meet, in spite of the scorching sun. They all wear the pith helmets, which every one has to sport in India, and are dressed as coolly as possible, wearing light-coloured coats of some thin material, which all soldiers, both men and officers, wear in India. Both George and Tom Burton are well mounted on Arabs -- gentle, beautiful, fast, and reliable, as Arabs almost always are. They were inexperienced at that time, and did not know how much too good such horses were for the work before them. As they were riding along the high road, boom, boom, boom sounded upon their ears; thirteen times did the cannon roar out from Bellary fort.

"Listen to the sounds which herald the return of Pompo," exclaimed Tommy, laughing.

I grieve to say this impudent boy was talking of the commanding officer of the Ceded District, who always directed that thirteen guns, instead of the regulation number of eleven, should be fired whenever he entered the cantonment after an absence, or left it to make an expedition about the country. Old General Porter was a worthy man enough, though report said he was not too attentive to his elderly and somewhat unwieldy wife; but his great weakness consisted in the high opinion he entertained of himself. So grand was his manner that he went by the name of "Pompo" with nearly every one in the cantonment.

"By Jove," said Captain Baillie, "I'd give something to be in England when Pompo first returns to his native land. Here he is accustomed to see people kootoo before him as if he was the Prince of Wales at least; what will he say when a butcher boy runs up against him in the streets of London, or hits him in the eye with his tray, and then swears at him for not looking where he's going to?"

It is getting cooler now, and the shadows are lengthening as they reach the dawk bungalow at Bissanhalli, where they find quite a large meet assembled. Each member of the hunt wears a blue jay's wing, or at least a feather out of it, in his or her cap, or hat, for there are three or four ladies who usually go out with the Bellary pack. They are not long in finding. Off they speed across the rocky, sandy ground, with the dozen pariahs streaming away as hard as they can pelt. Rather different work this from that of the old Berkshire hounds at home! Captain Baillie acted as huntsman on this occasion, while the little doctor was whipper-in; and in about an hour three foxes had been despatched, and the brushes transferred from the several bodies to which they belonged to three of the ladies' bridles.

The only accident that happened during the day befell poor Dr. Whitby. His great Australian horse was a new purchase, and he had not been out hunting on him before; though, that he had an idea of the character of the brute was evident from the name -- Satan -- which he had already given him. Several times during the hunt Satan had endeavoured to get rid of his rider by bucking, rearing, kicking, bolting; but all his endeavours had failed till they nearly reached the dawk bungalow, on their return, where the whole hunting party had arranged to dine together. Then his perseverance was at last crowned with success, but not content with seeing his rider on the ground, he seized him with his teeth, and shook him as a cat would a rat. Satan not only tore the little doctor's clothes, but even gave him a bad pinch on the chest with his great blunt teeth. However, several gentlemen soon rushed to the rescue, and Dr. Whitby was dropped; but he was so shaken and hurt, that he had to be driven home at once instead of joining the party at dinner.

When the hunters returned to the bungalow they found a goodly feast prepared for them on a long table placed under a small tope or grove of trees, which grew near the house. Most of the party had sent their own servants, who had made all the necessary preparations. Matting was spread upon the ground, and there were plenty of lamps placed on the table in anticipation of the deepening twilight. The horses were picketed at a little distance, off with their attendant horsekeepers; and soon the hunting party, minus the little doctor, whose absence was much lamented -- were seated round the festive board, and all went merry as a marriage bell. Before long they were made aware, however, that greedy eyes were watching their repast by the occasional shrill whistle or cry of the great kites with which the whole of India is infested. Some of these were gathered together, at a little distance, watching the eating that was going on.

Now this dinner was a pic-nic -- that is to say, every one had contributed a portion of the provisions or of the wine; and one lady of the party, the wife of the colonel commanding the European regiment, had provided, among other things, an English plum-pudding. Mrs. Wilson's cook had acquired a celebrity for this dish, and she was very proud of having instructed him in its manufacture. Perhaps in England we might think a plum-pudding unsuited to hot weather, but, as a thoroughly English dish, it would always be popular in India. The native servant, who was bringing it from the bungalow, happened to set it on the ground while he moved something from the table to make way for it; when one of the kites, more impudent or hungrier than the rest, flew up with a shrill cry, and in a moment swooped down upon the pudding, carrying it off in his claws. He was immediately surrounded by his brethren, all pecking at him and at the pudding, which anyhow he would have had to drop, for he found it too scalding hot to hold. As he flew away discomfited, he had the satisfaction of seeing the others, each in turn, get possession of a piece, and have to drop it as he did. The disappointment of the kites was not greater than that of the ladies and gentlemen, at seeing their plum-pudding carried off and torn to pieces in that way; and Mrs. Wilson was mortified in the extreme. But worse disasters than this, as we shall see, may happen to people who venture to dine alfresco in India.

The dinner was nearly over; twilight was deepening round them, bats were flying about over their heads, and now and then the cry of some wild beast would sound in the distance. Captain Baillie, who is sitting opposite to George, is recounting to him -- though he spoke also for the good of the company generally -- some hunting adventures which had befallen him during his Indian career. He was just saying, as he wound up the description of an encounter he once had with a tiger -- 

"I really think I have had every sort of excitement in the way of adventure that a man can have." Then, turning to Mrs. Wilson, he added, laughing -- "I consider we have had a thrilling adventure to-day, too; has not a daring robber carried off our plum-pudding before our very eyes? It isn't often one sees a lovely plum-pudding in India, and it is hard only to have a look at it. I am sure it would have been" -- he was going to add -- "delicious," when he stopped suddenly, his face turned, first red, then as white and stiff as if he were changing into stone. His voice was low and strangely altered too, and he paused between each word as if he feared to move his lips, as he said -- 

"Something, I believe a snake, has coiled itself round my leg."

Consternation fell upon the whole party. Colonel Wilson, a gray-haired veteran, who had been through many a hard-fought battle, and passed several years in India, cried out, "Don't move, Baillie! if you can only keep perfectly still, there is a great chance you may escape."

"All right, colonel," said poor Captain Baillie, as he turned paler and paler every second.

Colonel Wilson then suggested to the ladies that they should get into the bungalow as quickly as possible; they could do nothing, and would only be in the way in any case. Every one rose, and, by the colonel's orders, the dinner-table was drawn quietly and carefully back; the unlucky Captain Baillie alone keeping his seat. When the table was removed, the cause of the panic -- and sufficient cause too -- was disclosed to view. Tightly coiled in deadly folds round the young officer's right leg was a large cobra; its loathly body gliding higher and higher every minute, the flat, wicked-looking head raised, with the twinkling vicious eyes fixed upon Captain Baillie's, and the spectacle-marked hood outspread. It was a moment of most frightful anxiety to all; to the hapless young man himself it was an age of mental agony. Colonel Wilson was the only person who uttered a sound, and he merely breathed out softly the words, "For God's sake, Baillie, don't stir!" For a second the hateful creature swayed his head backwards and forwards, then suddenly the hood closed, the head dropped, the coils relaxed, and the snake fell upon the matted floor. Almost at the same moment Captain Baillie fell from his chair; he had fainted.

He was carried into the bungalow, and in a few minutes recovered his senses; but months passed before he was altogether himself again, after the shock his nerves had suffered from the terrible danger he so narrowly escaped. But what had become of the cobra all this time? In the excitement and confusion of the moment no one had thought of killing the snake. As far as the natives were concerned, this could very easily be understood; there are instances of natives worshipping the cobra, and they generally regard it with a mixture of deadly fear and superstitious awe. They will only kill one when by any chance they have injured it either by accident or in actual self-defence: in such a case they think it wiser to destroy it altogether, for they believe that if a wounded cobra gets away, it will sooner or later either return itself, or send its friends or relations to wreak vengeance upon the person that has injured it.

All were now anxious to return to their several homes in Bellary. Night had set in, the stars were peeping out, and all was hurry and confusion to get away. A sort of panic had fallen upon the assembled company: the thought kept rising up in the minds of most of them, though they did not say much about it to each other, that the cobra was probably still somewhere not far off.

Colonel Wilson's servants had come in a bullock bandy, in which were also brought plates, dishes, and other things required for the dinner; and he, very good-naturedly, offered to let Marley, Tom Burton's servant, go back in the bandy too. Accordingly, Marley was desired to run to the go-down, which served as the kitchen, and fetch the cooking utensils, or anything else belonging to him, and to make haste back to the bandy. A quarter of an hour has passed away. The whole party is ready to start homewards; horses are stamping and champing their bits in front of the bungalow steps; the ladies are all in their places, whether on horseback or in carriages of different kinds; the cavalcade is preparing to move, and the great bandy, drawn by the two large white bullocks with sleepy deer-like black eyes and humps on their backs, is there also.

Colonel Wilson calls out to Tom Burton, "The bandy is only waiting for your boy; they tell me he went to the go-down, and has not 'come back."

"Confound him!" cried Tommy, rather angry; "I'll teach him to keep people waiting."

Jumping from his horse, which he had just mounted, he strode off in the direction of the go-down, his hunting-whip in his hand. Before he arrived at the door of the little white building, he called out loudly, "Marley, Marley!" but no answer came. He pushed open the rickety door: a little miserable place it was inside, dirty, and with a mud floor; a cocoa-nut oil lamp was standing on a projecting ledge under the window, and there was an erection of brickwork in one corner on which a fire was yet smouldering.

Upon the ground, close to this fire, lay a heap of white clothes; which, as he drew near, he found to be Marley. Tom Burton gave a little grunt, and muttered, "Here's this lazy dog gone off to sleep, and keeping everybody waiting; I'll soon raise him up." He lifted his hunting-whip, and gave the prostrate form a light cut with it across the legs. There was no movement. "What a thick skin the brute has!" thought Tommy; "now that would have been an effectual rouser for any European. Here goes again."

This time he gave him a sharp blow across the body over the white cloth that was round him. Then, from under the cloth, with a loud hiss, appeared a flat, vicious head, with pointed nose, and diamond shining eyes; it raised itself, and spreading out its hood, began its devilish dance backwards and forwards; backwards and forwards. On the impulse of the moment, and scarcely thinking of his danger, Tom Burton reversed his whip, and going closer to the snake, dealt it a tremendous blow just under the hood with the butt end: the creature's dance was over, and for ever: its back was broken. Tom Burton called out and shook his poor servant, but all to no purpose. In a little time George and others of the party came to see what detained Tom Burton; and they carried Marley out into the air; but he remained insensible. This state of insensibility always precedes death from the deadly bite of the cobra. Nothing could be done to save him; he must die in an hour or so; his master had only been able to avenge his death.

CHAPTER XVII.

GEORGE COMES TO GRIEF.

SOON after the hunt described in the last chapter, the heat became so intolerable that all amusements of the kind had to be given up. The hottest time of the year had come on; it seemed as hot at twelve o'clock at night as at mid-day, and the ground around Bellary appeared to grow more parched and bare every hour. The tanks and wells were almost all dried up, the people had to go miles for water, and more miles still did the weary grass-cutters travel to get the small quantities of stunted roots of grass, which in this part of India have to serve the horses for hay. Each horse has two attendants to himself, a horsekeeper and a grass-cutter; and these latter have a hard time of it at this season of the year. The grass-cutters are generally women, and you may often see them starting off out of the cantonment with the first streak of dawn, to cut, or rather dig up, such roots of grass as they may find. The grass-cutter will carry her basket on her head and one child on her back, while another will be mounted on her hip, and sometimes a third will run by her side clamouring to be taken up too. Poor women! they have a weary life of it -- hard work, no thanks, and little pay; but they are almost always kind and tender to their little ones, and patient to a wonderful extent. These little black children, by-the-way, are utterly garmentless, except at meal times, when a piece of thread -- if that may be called a garment -- is tied round their waists, and they are allowed to eat rice until it bursts; as soon as this happens they are supposed to have had their fill.

The one amusement, if it may be called so, that continued throughout the year was the meeting, every evening, of all the European inhabitants of Bellary at the Band Place. Here the bands of the different regiments took it in turns to play, and here all the beauty and fashion of the place congregated. Here Pompo and all his staff would appear, the old General doing the mildly affable with much dignity. In the middle of what was intended to be a round plot of grass, but which during more than half the year consisted of sand instead, the band was stationed. Upon this plot, at one season, grew such flowers as could be cultivated; and here, while the band was playing, the children of the officers and civilians of this burning station disported themselves, accompanied by their ayahs and bearers. Outside all this was a circular drive where the carriages drew up, and beyond that again a larger ring for people to ride in.

Now, I must tell you of a piece of fun or impudence, whichever you may think it, which our friend Tommy Burton perpetrated one evening at the band. You must know that, since his arrival, he had cultivated the art of horsemanship after a fashion of his own; not content, as any one else would be, with learning to sit well and gracefully on his horse, he aimed at acquiring the accomplishments of a circus-rider, and could do all sorts of funny tricks upon a horse's back. Besides his two chargers, he possessed a very ugly black horse, which, when he purchased him, was a caster; that is, a horse which has been cast from the artillery or cavalry on account of some real or imagined defect or unfitness for such service. Now and then a good horse may be picked up cheap in that way. Whether this horse had been discarded for his vicious temper or deficiency of tail, or for what other reason I do not know; but at all events he had some admirable qualities, and Tommy thought himself very fortunate in becoming his possessor. Tom Burton named him "Justice to Ireland," because he resembled very much, both in appearance and abilities, a famous Irish hunter of that name which he had formerly known in Berkshire.

The breed to which "Justice to Ireland" belonged was unknown; certainly he had little or nothing of the Arab in him. He most excelled in that in which the Arab fails, and vice versa. Arabs seldom can jump at all, and never well; whereas he could jump anything. An Arab is sweet tempered, noble in disposition, capable of bearing things hard to bear, if required by one he loves. "Justice to Ireland" loved but one thing much, and that was eating, though he got along better with Tommy than with anybody else. Arabs are beautiful: "Justice to Ireland" was as plain-headed an animal as you ever saw; the rest of him was not so bad till you came to the tail, but as for that -- well! there was a stump, a little stump, and nothing more, without any hair upon it at all.

Tommy and his horse together were often getting into scrapes: he had taught the horse, among other accomplishments, to walk upstairs, and was fond of riding into his friends' rooms, sometimes into their bedrooms, which they did not always like. But he once nearly caused the death of a mess-waiter of his regiment, and brought a severe reproof upon himself, by jumping his horse over the mess-table just prepared for dinner. "Justice to Ireland" cleared it bravely, but he might have done the other thing, and then where would our friend Tommy have been?

Let us now go back to the band place, and to one evening when Pompo has just driven round into his usual place. He is seated in a handsome phaeton, drawn by a matchless pair of Arabs; by his side is a pretty, fair, delicate little lady, only lately come out from England; her husband commands the new troop of artillery which has just arrived at Bellary. Old General Porter has driven her to the band for the first time, for Captain and Mrs. Bolton are staying with him, and only arrived the day before; as yet they have neither house nor carriage in the place. Captain Bolton has ridden down to the band, and is standing near them. General Porter is Pride and Pomposity personified this evening, so particularly desirous is he of impressing this young and pretty woman with a due sense of his importance as the General commanding the Ceded District. He smiles blandly on the young officers who come crowding up to the carriage, waves his head condescendingly in time to the music, and looks and feels "monarch of all he surveys."

Mrs. Bolton is seated on the side nearest to the band; the General has his head turned towards her, when he hears a noise of horse's hoofs close to his carriage, and a shadow is thrown across it. He turns round hastily -- what does he behold? Tommy Burton seated on "Justice to Ireland" -- tailless "Justice to Ireland!" That a tailless horse should be ridden up to the side of his carriage at all would have been considered an affront to his dignity by the old General: but a tailless horse, with a young officer on his back who is riding -- oh, horror of horrors! -- riding with his face to the tail -- or rather to the part where the tail should be -- surpassed anything that could be imagined. Yet his eyes did not deceive him: it was actually the case. Tommy, his face beaming and his eyes twinkling with fun, sat there in that absurd and disrespectful position at the side of the General's phaeton, gravely making a military salute. Little Mrs. Bolton burst into a violent fit of laughter, and Captain Bolton was about to follow suit, indecorous as he knew Tommy's conduct to be, when he happened to glance at the General's face, and there saw such an expression of indignation and disgust that he checked himself as well as he could. Matters became worse when Tommy caused his horse to begin kicking, for it made the performance altogether look still more ridiculous. Merriment shone upon every face in the ring, the General's alone excepted; and when Tommy cantered off, still sitting the same way, with his horse playfully throwing up his heels at nearly every step, a regular chorus of laughter followed him, and poor little Mrs. Bolton was almost in convulsions.

For this joke Tom Burton found himself placed under arrest the next morning, and there was some talk of a court-martial, and all sorts of serious consequences; but after a few days, Pompo, probably reflecting that so long as the affair was talked or thought of, people would still laugh, let Tommy off. The latter was advised, however, by his friends, to avoid the presence of the General for a little time, and to make "Justice to Ireland" avoid it too.

After the excitement of this little incident had subsided, the subject which chiefly occupied the minds of our hero and Tom Burton was how to endure the heat, especially at night. They had found it impossible to keep the punkah-wallahs from sleeping, although they had tried all the generally received plans for doing so; among others, that of making him sit on a chair insecurely balanced on the top of another. But the punkah would stop all the same; the punkahwallah still fell asleep, and when the chair tumbled down, slept on where he fell. At last they made up their minds that they would betake themselves at night to the top of the house: there, on the flat roof, they had their mattresses spread out, and, after smoking sundry comforting pipes, fell into the calmest and most comfortable sleep they had known for months. But this was only to last for a few hours. George woke, feeling positively cold; he found that the mosquito net, which he had ingeniously fastened over himself, was blown away; Tommy's had just been borne off in the same summary fashion, and was at that moment whirling away in the distance. Lightning, no longer harmless, beautiful sheet lightning, but angry, forked flashes, rent the stormy-looking sky, and low growling of distant thunder could be heard. There was a strange, earthy smell all about, while rain in large drops began to fall, then suddenly came down in sheets of water. George and Tommy, and all their belongings, were drenched in a moment; the monsoon had broken.

All that night the rain poured down, and when the morning dawned, the landscape, that had shown but one long vista of sand and rock, was covered with quite a perceptible green shade. Vegetation quickly appeared upon the surface of the earth; in a few weeks grass was abundant for the horses, nor was it much longer before there were mangoes, plantains, and melons in plenty for the people; while grapes, figs, and other fruits, and even green peas, were to be had. The rains do not last very long at Bellary, and when they had passed, the inhabitants of this hot station bethought themselves of a little amusement. Balls were given, grand hunt meets were held again by the "Blue Jays," and, last not least, the young people began to talk of races.

Races took place every autumn at Bellary, and there was a fine race-course within a couple of miles of the fort. This time, besides the usual flat races, it was determined to have a steeple-chase. For this purpose an inner ring was formed, and, to make the jumps, some palisades were erected with brambles on the top, and two or three mud walls were built up, having ditches on each side of them. These walls were considered so formidable, that the number of entries for the steeple-chase was very limited. Now, the one merit which "Justice to Ireland" possessed was that of being a wonderful jumper, and his master was naturally anxious that he should run in the steeple-chase. But the General would certainly honour the races with his presence; in fact, all the little world of Bellary would be there. And although two or three months had passed since Tommy had given him such terrible offence, it was not wise to recall the matter to his mind; nor, indeed, would it be decorous to obtrude upon his notice the tailless animal, which had been an instrument in the offence.

In this difficulty Tommy's ingenuity suggested an expedient: he would get his horse a false tail, and enter him for the steeple-chase under a new name. "Justice to Ireland" was rechristened "Old England," thus changing his nationality with his name; and a tail was constructed which could be fastened on to the stump in a way which was considered by all those who were in the secret to have a very natural appearance. At first this tail was so long, that it gave the poor animal the look of a funeral horse, Upon this point George remonstrated strongly, assuring Tommy that such a tail would only draw attention and lead to suspicion; that it was, in facr, as much too big as the real tail was too small; but he had great difficulty in persuading Tommy to reduce it to reasonable dimensions. George is himself going to ride Dr. Whitby's large Australian horse. Much friendly advice had been given him to abandon the idea of riding this brute; but he knew that "Satan" could jump, if he liked, as well even as "Justice to Ireland," and he kept to his determination to take the risk.

For weeks before the day of the races, the jockeys might be seen taking their horses tremendous breathers every non-parade morning. Great preparations had to be made, especially in the arrangements for the steeple-chase. Then a place had to be railed off for weighing and saddling, and the grand-stand required putting in order and fitting up; for would not Pompo and his staff, and all the magnates of Bellary, be seated there?

At length the day arrives; the dawn is only breaking, and yet there is already a large crowd -- for an Indian station that is to say -- collected upon the race-course. Vehicles of nearly all descriptions are to be seen; ordinary European ones, and here and there the curious native carriages drawn by large bullocks with painted horns; these carriages are adorned with crimson hangings and fringes. Then, too, there are plenty of native equestrians, riding at a respectful distance on their curious little "Tattoos," as the native ponies are called; the riders sitting far back, with the turned-up points of their embroidered slippers resting in the long, large stirrups, and the ponies going at a curious run, which is neither trot nor canter.

There are, of course, several races to be ridden, with which we have nothing to do. Flat races, and a hurdle race ridden by ladies. This last was ridden on the ordinary race-course with, needless to say, not very severe fences to go over; and those were so slightly put up that they would not offer any resistance if a rush were made at them. All went well: there were no spills to speak of -- in the ladies' race none at all. But now came the event of the day -- the great steeple-chase.

The bell has rung for saddling; the weighing is over. Our two young friends ride nearly the same, about twelve stone each; George is large in limb and tall, while Tommy makes up in breadth what he wants in height. The horses are stripped, and neither "Justice to Ireland," in spite of his fine new tail, nor "Satan" either, would carry off a prize for beauty amongst the other horses entered; they are both plain though powerful, and the chestnut has a bad look about the eyes, that tells of mischief brewing. Captain Baillie is riding a beautiful Cape horse he has lately given a great price for. There are only six to start in all; and the other three need not be described, as they occupy no prominent place in this story, neither did they in the race. Captain Baillie's colours are dark blue, both jacket and cap; George wears a mauve and white-striped jacket and mauve cap; while Tommy rejoices in a scarlet jacket and yellow cap, preferring, as he says, "Quiet cool colours that don't strike the eye."

There had been a delay in bringing the horses on to the ground, for the chestnut had obstinately refused for a long time to have the bit put into his mouth, shutting his jaws and putting back his vicious-looking ears. However, that difficulty had been overcome at last, and the saddling too, though at the expense of a piece of the horsekeeper's arm, which was bitten right out. George was scarcely mounted when "Satan" stood straight on end; he fought for a minute, striking out with his fore legs, and came down only to throw up his heels almost as high; then he kicked till he nearly kicked himself over. "Justice to Ireland," on the contrary, seemed suddenly to have put on a new nature with his new tail, for Tommy was mounted in a minute, and the black horse quietly took his place for the preliminary canter. Captain Baillie's dark blue cap is already careering along, his beautiful bright bay Cape horse showing a perfect temper and a stride that looked well for speed.

The course is in the form of an oval, and being upon level ground, can be well seen throughout. The six horses are now drawn up in line; they have to go round the course twice, a distance of three miles in all; and there are six jumps, each of which has, of course, to be taken twice. The bell rings, and they are off. George is next to Tom Burton on the inside, and the chestnut horse seems inclined to follow the good example of the black, keeping stride for stride. The first" two fences -- easy ones -- are cleared almost together by all six; then Captain Baillie's blue cap is seen a little in front; but in rising at the first mud wall, the bay touches with his fore feet, and comes down a cropper. Luckily, neither he nor his rider are more than shaken and stunned for the moment; Captain Baillie is soon on again, and starts afresh, but the lost time will be difficult to recover.

The yellow and the mauve caps are now seen in advance of the rest of the field; the riders lifting their horses at the same moment to the leaps. They are nearing the worst jump on the course -- a mud wall with a deep ditch on either side. Tommy shouts out, "I'll give you a lead over, old boy;" and, gaining upon George, puts "Justice to Ireland" at the jump. As if he were a true Irish horse, the black rose to the leap, and cleverly jumped on to the wall, and off again; then sped onwards like the wind. The chestnut came bravely after him; George just touched him with the spurs, and he flew over the wall, ditches and all, without touching. "Justice to Ireland" is leading as they pass the winning-post for the first time; George is a good second, and Captain Baillie has already overtaken the other three.

At the next jump, which is a sort of fence with brambles on it, and unluckily just under the General's eyes, the black horse's tail is caught by a bramble; he is just landing on the other side, when he feels the jerk given to his tail, and bounds forward, leaving it behind him. Then, either smarting at the pain or indignant at the insult, he falls to kicking and plunging violently, and starts out of the course -- a tailless horse once more. At this sight a cloud gathers upon Pompo's brow, while everybody else is laughing.

George now is leading, but the dark blue cap is getting nearer and nearer every minute; and presently George can see it out of the corner of his eye: the bay is striking out bravely, and making up for lost time. George's horse is doing all he can, but his temper is getting the better of him, and he tries to bite at the bay as he comes up. They are now again at the big jump;

George feels that the chestnut has got his head, and is pounding along as hard as he can tear, right at the jump; he pulls at him, and tries to get him together before they reach the wall; it is of no use -- the beast has bolted. George knows how it will be, but there is no help for it, and in another moment the chestnut has rushed madly at the leap, and, scarcely rising at all, rolls over with a frightful crash into the ditch on the other side. The hoofs of Captain Baillie's bay just clear George and his horse as he flies over, and he has only to canter in and win.

The lookers-on hurry up to the ditch where our poor George lies so helpless now under the heavy weight of the great Australian horse. Tom Burton has just come up, and jumping from his horse, helps to raise his friend. "Satan" is dragged away; he will never do mischief again to any one, for he has broken his own neck.

When they lift the lad up, and Tommy sees the stiff white face all flecked with blood, and the powerless limbs, that were so full of life, and youth, and strength such a little time before, a sharp cry breaks from his lips, and his face is almost as colourless as his friend's. George is laid upon the grass; there are, of course, plenty of surgeons at hand, and foremost amongst them is little Dr. Whitby, to whom the Australian belonged. His remorse was indescribable, to think that he had permitted George to ride the dangerous brute.

The surgeon, who was kneeling by George's side, at once pronounced him living, but badly hurt. "His collar-bone is broken, poor fellow!" said he. Just then George opened his eyes.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A CHANGE OF QUARTERS.

IN our last chapter we left poor George in a sad plight -- so sad that he lay for weeks afterwards upon his bed always in pain, and scarcely able to move: not only was his collar-bone broken, but he had received internal injuries from the crushing weight of the horse that fell upon him. The weeks grew into months, and he was still an invalid, though rallying by degrees. In the evenings he was generally moved out into the verandah, where he was accustomed to hold a sort of little levee, composed of a sprinkling of the subalterns belonging to most of the regiments in Bellary. George was popular, and it had become a regular custom with them to go up to his bungalow in the evening and have a chat. Little Doctor Whitby was a constant visitor, both in a capacity of chum and medical adviser; while Tommy Burton was at once a cheering companion, and tender and attentive nurse.

One evening, when George felt very low and depressed -- as he had often felt of late, even to a degree that retarded his recovery -- he said to Dr. Whitby, who was sitting by his side -- 

"I begin to think, Whitby," he said, lifting his poor, thin, white hand to shade his eyes, and speaking in a weak, tremulous voice, "I begin to think that it's no go; that all your kindness, and Tommy's kindness, and everybody's kindness, will be thrown away. I have not got on a bit this last month."

"Hulloa!" exclaimed the little doctor, in what he meant to be a jocular and cheery tone of voice, "I can't stand this, you know; I shall have to report you if you talk in this way. Pretty thanks for all the care we've taken of you." Then the little man's face changed, and he said -- "Rolleston, old fellow, I can never, never forgive myself for letting you ride that horse. I have felt miserable ever since your accident; but I know, indeed I know, that you are now recovering fast. As far as the fracture is concerned," he added, laughing, "it really has mended in a way that, in a surgical point of view, is quite a treat to look at."

"Oh! I know my bones are set all right, Whitby; and pray do not talk as if it could be any possible fault of yours that I had the accident; but somehow I feel now and then just as if it was all U P with me. It isn't my bones now I'm thinking of, it is that I feel so weak. I know I'm an ungrateful beast to talk so; and I wouldn't say it to Tommy; but you can't think how weary, how tired, how sick of everything, I feel. I know I could get sick leave and go home to England; the doctors were talking of it the other day; but there is no one in England belonging to me now. Not one person, except perhaps, my old nurse, Nora, who cares whether I live or die; not one face that would brighten at the sight of me. It is very foolish, but now I'm weak and ill I can't help thinking of it." And George covered his eyes with his hand, that Dr. Whitby might not see the tears that were stealing out of them.

Just then through the compound came the sound of merry voices, and the tramp of horses. This was Tom Burton and Captain Baillie coming to see after the invalid. Tommy jumped off his "Tat," and ran up the steps of the verandah, holding out a letter for George.

"Here, George," cried he; "here's something to cheer you up a bit, a letter in a woman's handwriting; I wonder who it's from?"

George took it languidly, and after looking at it, said, "Not from England, I think."

"No, I could have told you that," answered Tom Burton; "but make haste and open it, old boy. How odd it is that people will stare at their unopened letters, wondering who they are from, when they've only got to open them to find out for certain."

George broke open his letter, and uttered an exclamation of surprise when he found it was from Mrs. Dunbar. The letter came like an answer to the desponding words he had just spoken; it was very, very kind, and the purport of it was to ask George to come and pay them a visit at Mhow, in the Bombay Presidency, where her husband's regiment was then quartered. The kind-hearted little woman had heard of George's bad accident, and how ill he still was, and she wanted him, if the doctors thought he could stand the journey, to come and be taken care of by her. Mhow was, besides, as she said, a healthier and cooler place than Bellary, She went on: "Our little Lily is growing a big child; more than two years old now; and she will make you laugh with her funny ways, and try to show you, in her odd fashion, that she is grateful to you for saving her little life. I have told her all about it, and tried to make her understand how ill you are. She says -- 'boor, boor' -- meaning poor; and adds, 'Lily take care of George.' Then she crosses her little arms as if she had a baby there, and rocks herself to and fro. I am afraid she will be disappointed to find she cannot nurse you on her knee."

George passed the letter round, and all agreed that he ought to accept the invitation to go to Mhow, if possible. But how to get there? George's face grew very long when they got a map and saw the great gap there was between Bellary and Mhow. However, matters looked a little smoother when George's colonel, who often looked in to see him, told them that the regiment was under orders to march to Hyderabad.

"So that will help you on your way, you see," said Colonel Holton, kindly; "we shall probably be off in a fortnight; and you must try and get strong enough to march with the regiment; it would never do to leave you behind."

From that time George began to improve in spirits and in health. There was general rejoicing in the regiment at leaving Bellary; every one said that it was the real original station between which and the lower regions there was only a sheet of brown paper: and Tom Burton was always declaring that the brown paper was actually giving way. As George could not yet mount his horse, he made the journey to Hyderabad in a palanquin; and I will tell you what this mode of travelling is like. A palanquin is a long sort of box, in which a person lies at full length, the sides opening with sliding panels to let you get in and out; and there are blinds which can be closed at will. From each end a long pole, like that of a carriage, projects; and eight men, four in front and four behind, carry the palanquin by resting these poles upon their shoulders. A relay of eight more walk at the side ready to take their turn; and at night flaming torches, which emit a most abominable smell, are borne beside the palanquin. The bearers keep up a monotonous and miserable cry or song as they perform their work. It begins with a sound something between a grunt and a groan from the leader; the next takes it up, singing a higher note; then the next, till each has uttered his short, sharp cry, or grunt, or groan of misery. Then the first starts it again, and the faster they go the faster the song goes, and the louder too. They keep it up all the time, so you may suppose it is not easy for a poor invalid to get much rest, travelling after this fashion; and the jolting is as bad as the noise.

Marching only in the early morning, the regiment slowly advanced towards Hyderabad. The officers had a double set of tents, each set being sent on alternately; so that on reaching their halting-place, they always found their canvas walls prepared for them, and everything as comfortable and settled as if they were going to live there for months instead of resting merely for a few hours. At last one morning the minarets of the great mosque at Hyderabad were descried by the foremost of the long troop of horsemen: then the palace appeared, and ere long they reached the miserable stone wall which serves as a poor protection to the Nizam's city. They encamped outside, nor need we go further. Those who like cleanliness, and object to vile odours, would rather remain without that wall than enter in.

From Hyderabad to Mhow, George had to continue his journey in a very different fashion. The regiment marched with elephants, camels, baggage-waggons, and a host of followers more numerous than the troopers themselves; but from Hyderabad to Mhow, George had to travel modestly in a bullock bandy alone; or at least with only his servant as a companion. On leaving Bellary he had dismissed Riepur, and engaged a new boy named Firmall, who proved to be a better servant in every way, and soon afterwards, as we shall see, did George a great service by his courage and fidelity. The journey from Hyderabad to Mhow lasted more than a fortnight, and was dreary enough. There was plenty of game of all kinds on the road if George had been able to shoot it: cheetars, antelopes, bears, and wild hogs all abounded; and he frequently came upon peacocks strutting along in all the pride of their beauty, or flying off terrified at the sight of human beings. But he had not yet either spirits or strength for sport, though he seemed to improve in health with each day's journey. The change of climate was certainly beneficial, and as he approached Mhow, the landscape presented a strange contrast to what he had been accustomed to at Bellary. Plains of deep rich alluvial soil spread on every side, and instead of the dearth of water and dried-up appearance which characterized the neighbourhood of Bellary, here were large rivers, winding streams, and fertile valleys with trees, shrubs, and all kinds of vegetation.

Colonel Dunbar's house was situated about a couple of miles from the Fort of Mhow, in the midst of a large compound in which great shady trees were growing, while near the house was a small lake or pond, with water-lilies floating on its surface. There was a soft breeze blowing as George drove up the avenue; he could have fancied he was in England that early morning but for the palms and cocoa-nut trees which reminded him of the tropics. The house consisted of a ground-floor only, and was surrounded by a wide verandah. Seated in this verandah, with a beautiful bulbul perched upon her shoulder, and her little baby girl seated at her feet, is Mrs. Dunbar, looking pretty as ever, though her bright complexion has faded since George first saw her. It is evident that even this short spell of Indian life has told upon her health, but she is cheery and pleasant as she used to be; and welcomes him kindly and cordially as he could wish; nor was Colonel Dunbar, who soon made his appearance, less hearty in his welcome.

Thanks to the beneficial change of climate, and the care and kindness of the Dunbars, George soon recovered his health and strength The days sped happily by. Such excursions as they took! such merry parties as they made to visit one place or another in the neighbourhood! Little Lily was almost inseparable from George; she would trot after him anywhere, and entirely won his heart. The little child, although unable to speak plainly, had a passion for singing, and George would be awakened in the morning by hearing her singing a duet with her pet bulbul.

This bird, generally called the Indian nightingale, is easily tamed, and is far handsomer than its European brother, for it has a long black tail touched up with crimson and white, and a crest on its little black head. Lily and her bird would sing together, each trying to sing louder than the other, and a pretty concert it was to hear. George had been at Mhow about a month, when one evening, as they were all sitting out in the verandah, the jingling bells of the "tappal," or letter-carrier, were heard in the distance, and presently, through the thick trees, his flaring torch was seen as he ran past the compound. The tappal, or postman, runs as fast as a horse could trot, and does a distance of about five miles without pausing or slackening his speed. There are relays of them stationed along the road, and each man, at the end of his course, finds another ready to start, to whose shoulders the leather bag containing the letters is transferred; and this one in turn transfers it to another when his five miles are done. At night they carry torches to scare away the wild animals. This mode of conveying letters in India is not so common now as it was at the time I am writing of; the improvement of the roads generally, and the introduction or extension of railways, have done much to supersede the use of the running postman.

As the tappal rushed along the road outside the compound that evening, seeming more like a demon than a human being, with his black skin, jingling bells, and waving torch, Mrs. Dunbar remarked, "There comes the post; I wonder what news it brings; I trust everything is quiet again in Oude." For tidings had already reached Mhow of disaffection in the Bengal Presidency, and especially at Lucknow, where the mutinous spirit had been kept in check for the moment, only by the energy and decision of Sir Henry Lawrence. Mrs. Dunbar little dreamed, as she quietly said those words, that the letters then arriving brought news that would make the blood boil and the heart throb of every European in the station -- news of the first decisive outbreak of the great Indian Mutiny.

On the following morning the letters were distributed, and the intelligence spread quickly throughout Mhow that the three regiments stationed at Meerut had mutinied, and, after killing their officers, had marched to Delhi, where the regiments in garrison had followed the example. Nearly all the Europeans at Delhi -- officers, civilians, women, and children -- had been massacred. This terrible news arrived towards the end of May; during the three or four weeks that followed, intelligence was received almost daily of the spread of the mutiny throughout the Bengal Presidency, and of similar massacres taking place in other cities of Northern India; but there was no symptom of disaffection as yet in the Bombay Presidency, and George, who was to start in two or three days to rejoin his regiment, rejoiced to think that he was leaving the Dunbar family in a place that seemed so tranquil.

On the morning of the 30th of June, Colonel Dunbar had paraded his regiment, and, looking down the row of dark faces and gleaming eyes, had seen no expression of malice, no sign of the savage fury pent up within the hearts of these orderly-looking soldiers. On his return from parade, he was surprised to find that his wife had just dismissed her tailor. This man had been in Mrs. Dunbar's service some time, and was an excellent servant in his line, but had behaved strangely on this particular morning. Mrs. Dunbar had scolded him because, in making a new frock for little Lily, he had actually imitated a patch which was on the old one, that had been given him for a pattern. On looking at his work, she had very naturally told him he was stupid. He was sitting at the time in his usual place in the verandah, holding the seam he was sewing carefully stretched out by means of his toes, and, on her saying this, he jumped up, glared at her savagely, and cried, "Plenty too long time have I borne this; plenty too long have black peoples borne white peoples. Change, plenty change, soon coming!" And putting on his shoes before his mistress, which was a great insult according to Indian ideas, he had marched off -- Mrs. Dunbar having just time to order him never to come back.

That evening the Dunbars had a dinner-party, and several of the guests had some anecdote to tell of impertinence on the part of their servants; who, on being discharged, had uttered threats of the same kind as those used by Mrs. Dunbar's tailor. But the behaviour of George's servant was more strange still. When George retired to his room to go to bed, Firmall came to him with excited face and glistening eyes, and said -- 

"What time master going to start? I packed master's things, and ordered bullocks for the sahib to start to-night."

George stared at him, and replied -- 

"Are you out of your senses? I told you I was going away the day after to-morrow; I never thought of going to-night."

George could see Firmall change colour through his black skin, as he answered -- 

"Much better the sahib starting to-night. I make everything ready for master, and I tell commissariat-man master wanting bullocks tonight."

"What a fool you must be," said George. "You've just had your trouble for nothing. Unpack what I want to-night, at all events."

Firmall wrung his hands, and cried -- 

"Master must start to-morrow early morning; plenty reasons!"

"Hold your tongue," said George; and, kicking at a small portmanteau, ordered him to undo it at once. Firmall obeyed, and then left the room. George jumped into bed, tucked in his mosquito-curtains, and was soon fast asleep. Then he had a dream: he thought that he was with Tom Burton hunting bison; that they had got into a thick, high jungle, where they lost all sight of their game, and were hemmed in by trees and tough thorny undergrowth. Suddenly, crashing through the bushes, and tearing down the trees as it came on, they beheld a huge elephant; and at the same moment there appeared on all sides the black faces of natives showing through the branches, with white eyes and glittering teeth, uttering shouts and yells. As the elephant bore down upon them, Tommy fired, but George could not find his rifle; and the elephant seized him round the shoulders with his trunk. What a snorting, hissing sound is in his ears! How they are firing! Yet no bullet frees him from his enemy. He feels himself raised from the ground, and in a second will be hurled above the elephant's head. But, no! he opens his eyes to find himself in his bed, and Firmall clasping him round the shoulders, endeavouring to lift him out of it. There is smoke in the room, and a great shouting outside. Firmall, seeing his master awake, cries out -- 

"Now, come, sahib, out by back way, through bath-room, down steps. Sepoys attacking the Colonel sahib's house, and master will be killed. Make plenty haste, or master will be too late."

CHAPTER XIX.

AN INCIDENT OF THE MUTINY.

IN one moment the truth dawned upon George. He knew the reason now why Firmall had urged him to depart that night. This man was faithful enough to wish to save his master.

"Where are Mrs. Dunbar and the child?" was his first exclamation.

"The mem sahib and missy baba are in their bedroom, master," cried Firmall. "But make haste, make haste, or master will be surely killed. Plenty devils those men there."

"Is the Colonel with Mrs. Dunbar?" asked George again, as, hurrying on some clothes, and quickly loading a revolver which lay upon the table, he turned -- not towards the bath-room for safety, as Firmall recommended -- but to the door which led into the centre of the house.

What a scene he beheld as he entered the dining-room! -- that room where, but a few hours before, a merry party had been seated, unconscious of the fearful storm about to break upon them. Now, in the same room, in the early dawn, with the sun just rising to pour his bright rays upon the wicked scene, were savage men, more brutal in their fury than any of the wild beasts of India. Several of the mutineers had passed through the verandah, and, having broken open the shutters or persiennes of the windows by firing into the fastenings, were gathered together at one end of the room, evidently hesitating for the moment how to act. At the other end, holding them at bay in front of a door that led into another room, stood Colonel Dunbar, half-dressed, with revolver in one hand and sword in the other. These men, whose bloodshot eyes now gleamed like those of tigers, were troopers of his own regiment -- the very men whom, in the ranks a few hours before, the good Colonel had gazed upon with contented eyes, and a sense of satisfaction and security. Perhaps some lingering respect for their commanding officer made these men pause before attacking him; or, possibly, their object had been loot rather than murder, and they shrank for a moment from the latter. He is at bay now, and ready to die to keep those savage eyes and hands one minute longer from the dear ones that are beyond that door.

George took in the scene, and the full meaning of it, at a glance. He rushed to Colonel Dunbar's side, who whispered to him -- 

"Go through the door behind me. For God's sake, save my wife and child. Get them out by the back way."

"You go to them," replied George. "I will keep the door while I have life."

"No, no!" exclaimed the Colonel. "For God's sake, do not hesitate. In another moment it may be too late."

George pressed his friend's hand, and passed through the door into Mrs. Dunbar's bedroom. As he did so, the poor, lady, clasping her little child in her arms, with a despairing cry, ran to the opposite door, which led into the bath-room; but George was beside her ere she could escape.

"Look at me," he whispered; "it is George Rolleston. The Colonel has given me the charge of you and Lily; and, with God's help, I will save you."

Opening the door of the bath-room, George there found Lily's ayah lying on the ground in a state of the most abject terror. He lifted her up, and shook her together, telling her to rouse herself, and try to save her mistress and the child she was so fond of.

The poor ayah raised a horror-stricken face, and said -- 

"What must I do, sahib? Oh! my chota mem sahib; what must poor ayah do to save you and missy baba?"

George bade her go before them to the back entrance of the bungalow, to see if any of the mutineers were there. Frightened as she was, she obeyed at once, and glided noiselessly from the room. Meanwhile Mrs. Dunbar hushed and soothed her little frightened child, who was too terrified to scream out loud, and only moaned out, "Papa, papa!"

But we must follow the ayah for a moment. As she softly opened the door at the back of the house that led into the compound, there, standing on the steps outside, she found Firmall, who learnt from her the position of his master and her mistress, and left her, saying he would help them yet.

The moment he had gone, and just as she had descended the steps to look about a little better, up came a party of Sepoys, who questioned her as to her knowledge of any jewels or money that might be in the house; and not being satisfied with her answers, dragged her off to a go-down in the compound, where they shut her up a prisoner.

Finding the ayah did not return immediately, George proposed that they should follow her at all risks; for anything would be better, he thought, than to be pent up there; but he met with an unexpected difficulty. Mrs. Dunbar declared she could not leave the bungalow while her husband was in it. In vain George entreated her to think of the safety of her child; in vain he repeated to her the very words Colonel Dunbar had used to him. No; she simply refused to go; and this gentle little woman became suddenly as firm and immovable as a rock. George was sorely puzzled.

During the four or five minutes that had passed since he left Colonel Dunbar in the dining-room, no sound had reached his ears indicating the commencement of a struggle there. He had heard voices, but they did not even seem raised in anger; and a very slight hope was rising in his heart that Colonel Dunbar might have found means to calm or to conciliate the Sepoys. He was beginning to think this the only chance left, slender as it was, when Mrs. Dunbar uttered a faint cry. George's eyes instantly followed the direction of hers, and he saw a black face looking down upon them from a small window high up in the wall. The room they were in was loftier than the bath-room or dressing-room which opened out of it; and, on the side on which those rooms were situated, it received light and air only from three small windows, about fifteen feet from the floor, which looked out over the roof of the smaller rooms. George was in the act of drawing his revolver from his pocket, when he recognized Firmall; who, putting his head through the window, and craning out his neck, said, in a sort of hissing whisper -- 

"Master, master, no shooting! me wishing to help master, and the mem sahib and chota missy baba. No escape for missis out by door; missis must come out by window, and hide on roof. Here is rope, plenty strong tent rope. Master making this rope firm round the mem sahib and missy baby, I making plenty hard pull up here. Trust me, master! Firmall plenty good man; never tell lie."

As natives generally make a point of saying this when they are lying more than usual, Firmall's words did not in themselves carry conviction with them; but George thought of the proof he had already received that night of this faithful fellow's wish to save his master, and besides, as flight appeared impossible, their best chance of safety evidently lay in concealment. Poor Mrs. Dunbar made no opposition when George proceeded to fasten the rope round her. She begged at first to take her child up with her in her arms; but being told that both together might be too heavy for Firmall to pull up, she submitted, and directly George had fastened the rope securely, he lifted her as high as he could, and gave the signal to haul up.

Firmall had made one end of the rope fast to a piece of the brickwork outside, and, working with a good will, he soon raised Mrs. Dunbar to a level with the window. She is very slight, and easily passes through; and now she kneels outside upon the roof, with the blazing sun pouring down its rays upon her, stretching out her arms through the window towards her little Lily.

Poor little Lily, meanwhile, is a piteous sight to see. Seated on the ground, her pretty face blistered with tears, and too much worn out now with fright and exhaustion to scream any longer, she merely makes a sort of pitiful bleating noise like a little lamb. Her great blue eyes open wider with terror as she sees her mother drawn up through the window; but she is soon in George's arms, the rope is tied round her, and the mother has but a moment to wait before her eager hands clutch her child.

Firmall then threw down the rope to George; but George's attention at that instant was arrested by loud voices from the dining-room. He heard a pistol-shot, followed quickly by two or three others; there was loud shouting, the crash of furniture, and sounds of a scuffle. Obeying a natural impulse, he rushed to the door, revolver in hand. As he reached it, it was opened from the other side, and a Sepoy appeared in the doorway. George fired in his face; the man reeled back, killed or wounded; others who were near recoiled also; and, as George looked through the smoke, the room seemed to be full of savage faces, with glaring, furious eyes. Then the thought flashed across his mind, "If I am killed, I shall let in all these wretches to the colonel's wife and child: it is too late to save him now, better fulfil his orders." Stepping back, he slammed to the door, and bolted it on the inside. Then he ran to the rope, scrambled up it, and in a moment was crouching down upon the roof beside the others, having first drawn up the rope, and let down a Venetian blind over the window.

Some minutes passed before they heard any one entering the room below. Apparently the Sepoys stood in awe of George's revolver; but they already heard in other parts of the house -- and soon afterwards in that room also -- the sounds of plundering, of destruction, and of riot. They could hear glasses smashed, drawers opened and shut, furniture broken, all accompanied by shouting, yelling, and a kind of diabolical revelry. Meanwhile, the blazing sun poured down its fierce rays upon them, as they crouched behind the low parapet, fearing lest any of the mutineers outside the bungalow should discover their retreat. George and Mrs. Dunbar placed themselves so as to shade the child as much as possible, while site, poor little thing! was parched with thirst, and incessantly moaned out, "Lily want tea; Lily must hab tea; mamma div poor Lily tea!"

A few hours passed in that situation, exposed to an Indian sun, must either have killed or driven mad any European; but after about an hour of such agony and dreadful suspense as might count for a lifetime of suffering, the welcome sound reached their ears of the retreat of the mutineers through the compound. The sound gradually receded into the distance, and all appeared as still as death within and around the bungalow. George descended first alone from their hiding-place to see if the coast was clear, telling Firmall -- who sat watching those he had saved like a faithful dog -- to guard the mother and child till he came back. There was a narrow stone staircase against the wall of the house outside, which led to and from the roof. Luckily none of the mutineers had had the curiosity to mount it; and by this staircase George descended, and entered the house the back way. In his eagerness to find his friend, he scarcely heeded the scene of destruction that met his view as he passed through the rooms; looking - glasses, furniture, and windows all broken; dresses, and other contents of chests of drawers and cupboards, scattered about in all directions. Even the pet Persian cat was killed; and close to its broken cage upon the drawing-room floor lay Lily's bulbul, that used to join its little mistress in her morning song.

In the dining-room, near the spot where he had last seen him, George found the object of his search, lying in a pool of blood, apparently dead. He was lying there alone; such of the mutineers as might have been killed or wounded either by him or George had been carried off by their friends. George knelt on the ground beside him, and called to him: -- no answer came; but taking up his hand, he found it had not the cold chill feeling of death; he placed his ear against Colonel Dunbar's breast to listen if the heart still beat, and he heard a faint pulsation. Starting to his feet, he ran back to the bedroom, and called through the window to the anxious watchers above to come down quickly, that the Colonel was alive, though wounded and unconscious. As he turned back into the dining-room, he observed for the first time that there was a strong smell of fire; and opening a door into a room he had not passed through, he found a quantity of furniture piled up in a great heap upon the floor and blazing furiously; the flames already reached the rafters of the ceiling, and were spreading rapidly. The mutineers had intended to complete their work of destruction before they left by setting the bungalow on fire.

To find her husband still alive, though desperately wounded, was joy beyond expression for the poor little wife; and just as she kissed his pale face his consciousness returned, and he opened his eyes as if to bid her hope. Some brandy, which luckily had been overlooked by the Sepoys, was quickly brought; and when he had swallowed a few drops, he revived still more. But there was no time to be lost; he must be moved at once beyond the reach of the flames. They bandaged up his wounds as well as they could at the moment, to check the flow of blood: he had a sabre cut on the head, another on the thigh, and, as it was afterwards discovered, a bullet in the shoulder. George and Firmall placed him on a mattrass, and in that way he was carried out, just as the flames reached the dining-room, to a go-down in the compound.

They had not been many minutes in their new quarters when they heard a sound of lamentation from another outbuilding close by, which was used as the stables. When George went there and opened the door, which was fastened on the outside, he discovered Lily's ayah seated on the ground crying bitterly. She had been kept a prisoner since she fell into the hands of the mutineers an hour before, and her delight was great at finding her mistress and missy baby safe and unhurt.

On looking into the stables George observed that, though four horses belonging to Colonel Dunbar had been looted, there still remained the bullock-bandy and the bullocks which Firmall had prepared for his master the night before, when he so strongly urged him to depart. The sight of these suggested to George the possibility of getting farther away; the Fort of Mhow, where there were a few European Artillerymen, and which he felt sure remained in the hands of the authorities, was scarcely two miles distant; and he dreaded lest the Sepoys should return to see how far their work had been complete.

They lifted Colonel Dunbar on his mattrass carefully into the bandy, and Mrs. Dunbar and Lily got in with him, while the others walked by the side. As they turned out of the compound, they could see other bungalows burning besides their own; at several points flames and thick columns of smoke were rising up against the sky. George thought of the day of his arrival, and remembered how the beauty of the place, the comfortable home-like house, and the happiness of its inmates had impressed him then. What a contrast to such a scene as this! They had not proceeded a quarter of a mile when Colonel Dunbar again became insensible; it was evident that a continuance of the shaking of the bandy might cause his death; so they turned off the road to a tope of trees -- a place called "Dancing Girl's Bowrie," that is, "Dancing Girl's Well," called so from a legend that a dancing girl once drowned herself there. Here, under the shady trees, the Dunbars had often had picnics in happier days; and now they lifted the wounded man out of the carriage, and laid him on his mattrass near the well, under the spreading branches of a great banyan-tree.

From their halting-place Firmall was sent on to the Fort to reconnoitre, and, if possible, to send a surgeon, or bring help of some sort to the Colonel. Meanwhile, Mrs. Dunbar sat by her husband, bathing his head, and moistening his lips with brandy and water; and the ayah took her little charge in her arms and tried to rock her off to sleep. But the poor child, still terrified by all she had gone through, faint for want of food, and with her little heart aching almost to bursting at the sight of her father's suffering and her mother's despair, could not at once settle to sleep. It had happened on some occasion that Lily had built upon that spot a little house of toy bricks and shells. One of these shells happened to be lying there still; the ayah picked it up and gave it to her. She stretched out her little hand to take it, and for a moment was interested; turning and twisting it in the light, and seeing it glitter as she did so. At last getting sleepy, she asked to "tiss" papa and mamma; then folding her little hands, and looking upwards with her pretty blue eyes, said, "Lily pray Dod for papa and mamma." She repeated after her mother that first prayer all little children learn, and added of her own accord -- "Pray, dood Dod, make papa well and mamma happy." Then she took up the shell again, and the ayah pressed the little hand with the shell in it to the child's ear, who, hearing the whisper in the shell, shut her eyes and settled herself comfortably to sleep, murmuring, "Dod telling Lily, Yes."

Hours have passed; Mrs. Dunbar still sits beside her husband, fanning him, bathing his face with water, and watching the faint spark of life which burns so feebly; Lily sleeps calmly in the ayah's arms, who leans with her back against a tree, dozing; George walks backwards and forwards impatiently, expecting the return of Firmall. At length he goes out from under the trees, and stands by the road side, looking out upon it. And now the sun is going down; it is just the time when man's vitality is lowest. Will poor Colonel Dunbar live through the next hour? Suddenly George hears the sound of horse's hoofs upon the road in the distance where the trees hide it from his view; they come nearer and nearer, and soon the horse is pulled up close to him. It is the doctor of Colonel Dunbar's own regiment whom Firmall has found. He kneels at the side of the wounded man, while all look on in speechless, breathless anxiety; when he speaks, his words are words of inexpressible consolation to the poor wife, assuring her that there is every reason for hope. He tells her, too, that Firmall and other men with a litter will be there in a few minutes to carry her husband to the Fort.

Afterwards, in brief words, he explained to George all that had occurred. The mutineers had already left Mhow, marching in the direction of Indore, a station about twelve miles off. Three officers had been killed during the outbreak, but he knew of no other deaths, unless they were among the mutineers themselves, and by that time all the Europeans had found shelter at the Fort.

I may add here that little Lily's prayer was granted. Colonel Dunbar did not die from his wounds, though he was lame for the rest of his life, his leg being contracted from the cut on the thigh. As soon as he was well enough to travel, he and his wife and Lily went to England.

PART II.

CHAPTER XX.

AFTER SEVEN YEARS.

I AM going now to pass over seven years of George's life, giving only a very slight sketch of what happened during that time, in order to come at once to certain important events] which gave the colour to all his after-life.

We left him at the close of the last chapter in the Fort at Mhow. George had no inclination, however, to remain shut up there, and resolved to depart at all risks. After narrowly escaping an encounter with more than one stray party of mutineers in the neighbourhood of Mhow, he made the rest of his journey safely and without adventure to join his regiment at Hyderabad. Finding that the regiment was not likely to take part in any operations against the mutineers, he obtained leave to serve as a volunteer in the Hyderabad Contingent, and joined some cavalry of this force, which accompanied Sir Hugh Rose throughout his campaign in Central India. He was present at many an engagement and many a siege, and that he behaved like a brave man and a good officer we know him too well to doubt. Towards the close of the campaign -- it was at the capture of Calpee -- he was badly wounded, and went afterwards for a short time to England on sick leave.

In England, George spent some time at Dumbleton Rectory. Old Mr. Burton was hospitable and genial as ever, while Rhoda was growing up into a lovely girl; and the thought used sometimes to cross George's mind, "If I should happen to come to England again in four or five years, what a beautiful woman I shall find her!" He also occasionally saw his stepmother and Eric; time had softened the bitterness of feeling both on their part and his, and, although there was nothing that amounted to cordiality on either side, they were civil enough to each other. He saw his old nurse Nora too, and right glad she was to see him. Nor did he forget to visit the Dunbars, who were now settled in England, the Colonel having left the army; and they had many a talk of the danger they had gone through together. Returning to India, his life had consisted of the ordinary routine of a soldier's life in that country, and just before the close of the seven years, he had been promoted, and obtained his troop.

Let us suppose, then, that the seven years have gone by. The actors in the scene I would picture to you now are all old acquaintances, and the scene itself lies in the Neilgherry Hills, in Southern India, at a beautiful place called Ootacamund. Here, in a lovely garden, we find George and Tom Burton; with them seated on a garden-chair, smoking a cigar, is an old man of stalwart frame, and weather-beaten and lionlike countenance. Looking back to people we have known in years gone by, we recognize General McDougal, but little altered since we saw him last. A handsome young lady, with roses in her cheeks that tell of an encounter with European breezes no long time past, is cutting flowers in the garden. There is likeness enough still about the eyes to our friend Tommy, who is standing a few paces off talking to the General, for us to guess whom we have here. The handsome young lady with the brilliant eyes, bright complexion, and graceful figure, is no other than Miss Rhoda Burton. A few words will explain her presence here.

Rhoda's father had died about a year ago, and having no near relations except her brother and uncle, she has come out to India to keep house for the latter, and to have a chance of seeing her brother sometimes. Sir John McDougal has a command in the Madras Presidency; he has, in fact, succeeded our old friend Pompo as General commanding the Ceded District. Rhoda was now about one-and-twenty, and before her father died, and she left Berkshire, she was generally considered the belle of the county. Many heads were turned or hearts broken by her beauty, and the gossips of the neighbourhood were wont to say that Eric Rolleston, with his ten thousand a year, was among her worshippers. However, she had left all this seemingly without regret; she had now been some months with her uncle, and the hot season having come on, and the plains becoming unbearable, Sir John has taken this cottage up at the Neilgherries, and is here with Rhoda on his two months' leave. George and Tom Burton have got leave at the same time, and have come to join the kind old man and his niece on the hills.

At the moment our picture is taken, George is standing under the porch of the cottage, watching Rhoda. Captain Rolleston is a fine big fellow, with a large tawny moustache; tall and large of limb, with such shoulders as you don't often see even among Englishmen; while his bright honest blue eyes shine out from a bronzed face, looking brighter and bluer from the contrast.

Such were the figures on the scene: one word now as to the scene itself. The porch where George was standing formed a sort of bower of sweet-scented and brilliant flowers; roses hung in profusion from the trellis-work, great branches drooping down with the weight of their own blossom. There was the same abundance of glorious flowers throughout the garden; and this garden is but the type of a hundred others among the villas of Ootacamund. Even on the roadside, and where there is no cultivation, wild flowers as beautiful flourish in profusion; the geraniums form large bushes; while such plants as fuchsias, verbena, and heliotrope attain a size incredible to those who have not seen them on the Neilgherry Hills. But the charm of the brilliant colour, and perfume of the flowers, and richness of the vegetation is nothing in comparison to the beauty and grandeur of the surrounding scenery. In some directions hills rise above hills towering towards the sky; in others, the view extends to the far distant plains below: all seen through an atmosphere of marvellous clearness. The remembrance of such scenes, where God has cast His fair gifts so lavishly, is like a bright spot in one's existence. Ah! how impossible it is to give any idea of the glory of those wonderful hills in a mere word-picture.

As George left the porch and was advancing across the garden towards Rhoda, his attention was arrested by sounds of altercation within the house; and a voice with which we are familiar, though it has not struck upon our ears for a long, long time, cries out -- 

"Gib it to me, sar; I tell you gib it to me, you ugly black fellow!" Then, coming out through the porch, appeared our old friend Julius Caesar, carrying in his hand a letter which he held out to George. Firmall followed him with a crestfallen look, and Julius began an explanation of his late altercation.

"You see, sar," he said to George, "dese black fellows berry officious. My duty to bring you your letters, sar. I General's sarvint, sar, and carry letters for his friends, sar. Please speak to your sarvint; berry impertinent black fellow!" and Julius Caesar marched off pompously, casting glances of withering scorn at Firmall.

Julius Caesar had not improved in modesty since we knew him before. He bullied the native servants frightfully, treating them like dogs; and though blacker than any of them, was perpetually bringing up their colour against them. It was ludicrous to hear him, with his jetty skin, flat nose, thick lips, and woolly head, addressing the people of the country, with their fine features, and often merely copper-coloured complexions, as, "ugly black niggers." George was fond of Firmall; and, as we know, he had reason to be; therefore he resented Julius Caesar's conduct, and taking the letter with an impatient gesture, he said, "In my opinion you're the worse of the two, Mr. Julius Caesar. I will not have you bully Firmall."

Julius rolled his eyes and looked very indignant; then smiting himself on his woolly head three times with his hand, took himself back to the house.

George opened his letter, and turning to the General, said -- "It is from my brother Eric, Sir John, to tell me of his arrival at Madras. I suppose we shall have him up here very soon now. He talks of coining to Dawson's Hotel to stay."

Sir John McDougal laughed, as he replied in his broad Scotch accent -- 

"It's a vara queer idea this of your effeminate young brother, to come out here alone, on purpose to shoot. I wonder if there is nae other attraction on these hills beside the tigers and sambur. It must be a strong motive to bring out to India such a lazy young dog as I have always thought Master Eric."

George turned very red, and bit his moustache, as he answered -- 

"Eric has always been fond of sport, although he isn't a particularly good hand at it."

"So Eric has arrived at Madras, has he?" said Tommy (for we must still call him Tommy, though he is now quite an old officer). "Lord, what a swell he will be out here with his ten thousand a year! And yet twenty of him would never make the man old George is." And so saying, he gave George a friendly slap on the shoulder.

The news of Eric's arrival in India took no one quite by surprise, as George had received a letter from him a few weeks before, saying that he intended to come out to India in order to have some tiger-shooting. Eric Rolleston was now about two-and-twenty; and, his mother being dead, he had no particular tie to England. Besides, he was old enough to have had three or four seasons of dissipation in London, and to be rather tired of it. It was becoming the fashion for young Englishmen, who were fond of sport, to take a trip out to the East, in this way, for a few months, to shoot bigger game than could be found in Europe; and Eric fell into the fashion, and made this journey, either from real love of sport, or, it might be, as Sir John surmised, from some stronger motive.

Rhoda was the only one of the party who expressed much pleasure at the prospect of seeing Eric again; and whether she was really glad, or only pretended to be so in order to tease George, it is difficult to say. Perhaps we shall be able to judge better by-and-by.

A week has passed away. Eric is settled at the hotel at Ootacamund, and is spending almost all his time at the Rosery, as Sir John McDougal's cottage is called. It is quite clear that the old General had been right in his suspicion that there was another attraction on the hills besides the game for Eric. In fact, no one watching the young people could doubt for a moment that the two brothers were both in love with Rhoda; and it must be owned that, whether she really liked Eric or not, it seemed to amuse her to talk and laugh with him,

Rhoda's brother has watched what is going on with a disapproving eye. Eric is handsome and insinuating, and Tom Burton begins to be seriously afraid that he may cut out George with Rhoda. Chiefly with a view of interrupting a proceeding that he objected to so much, Tommy proposed a hunting expedition of a few days into the Mysore territory; and, though neither George nor Eric was much inclined to go, they could not find a pretext for refusing.

It was a lovely morning when the three young men started. They had just bidden adieu to Rhoda and her uncle; and, after their horses had proceeded a few paces along the road, they all turned to glance back, or rather up, at the cottage, looking so pretty and home-like, perched on its terraced plot of ground among the hillsBehind it are the little farm-yard and orchard; while in front bloomed the lovely garden; and, under the rose-covered porch, the handsome graceful girl and stalwart old man stand, watching their departure. Rhoda is holding the General's arm, and shading her eyes with her hand, as she looks after them.

Slowly they began the descent of the ghaut, and indescribably, marvellously beautiful was the scenery. The brilliant colouring of trees, plants, and shrubs shone in the clear atmosphere. Round and round the hills wound the road. Sometimes the travellers looked down an almost perpendicular declivity, and could see the distant plain below; and as their road led them still down, down, they passed through thin, white, fleecy clouds, which were hanging in the early morning air against the mountain side. At Kulhutty, the beautiful dawk bungalow half-way between Ootacamund and the plains, the young men rested during the heat of the day. Fortunately they found it empty, no other travellers having taken possession beforehand; for it only consisted of two rooms. Like some lovely Swiss chalet, the little cottage rested against the hill; a waterfall close by kept up its delicious, cool, splashing sound; and a grove of trees and shrubs in rich blossom surrounded the tiny habitation.

The horses are put up, and the bungalow peon is busy cooking a sort of tiffin for the young men, while the latter go out to take a stroll, and look about them. The sun is very hot, but their heads are well protected by their pith helmets. Eric strides along the edge of the ghaut, smoking, with his hands in his pockets. He looks very handsome, with his well-cut features, delicate complexion, and slight tall figure; but the expression of his face is not pleasing. with passion. George remonstrated with him; but, receiving no answer, took up his own rifle to load it; while Tom Burton followed his example.

Firmall follows George out to say that he had better take his rifle with him, as the bungalow peon declares that a panther has been seen lurking about in the neighbourhood. They called to Eric that they were going to take their guns; and he, coming back, inquired for his rifle of his dressing-boy. This boy, who, with Firmall, had come down to the bungalow earlier in the morning, had been brought by Eric from Madras. He was a stubborn-looking, ill-conditioned creature enough, both stupid and forgetful -- the latter being a common fault with native servants. When Eric desired him to fetch his rifle, the man looked confused, and at last acknowledged that he had forgotten it; that it was left behind at Ootacamund. On hearing this, Eric flew into a violent rage, and, to the extreme disgust of George, who was standing by his brother in the verandah, struck his servant a tremendous blow with his fist on the head, calling him, at the same time, all the names he could think of. Then, taking up a hunting-spear that stood against the wall, went off by himself down the steps, boiling with passion. George remonstrated with him; but, receiving no answer, too up his own rifle to load it; while Tom Burton followed his example.

Eric's servant turned away, muttering, as his master left the bungalow, and Tom Burton, who caught a glimpse of his face, said to George, "It was a beastly shame to hit that boy; but he certainly looks an ill-conditioned brute, and no mistake."

Our two old friends sallied forth together, George feeling uncomfortable at Eric's being alone and comparatively unarmed.

"But he never would be fool enough to attack a panther, having no gun with him," said Tommy.

"I'm sure I don't know what he would or would not do," answered George; "he is about the most uncertain creature that ever lived."

George was carrying his old heavy rifle, Anna Maria, and he and Tom Burton, with rifle also in his hand, walked down the road together. On each side of the road was jungle, and, as it was very winding besides, the two young men could catch no glimpse of Eric. At last Tommy gave a shout by way of calling to him. Just as he did so, George caught sight of a panther crouching in the grass no long way off. He touched Tommy in order that he might be prepared, and fired Anna Maria; the panther was hit, and fell. At that moment Tommy Burton gave an exclamation of surprise, and George, turning his head, saw another larger panther standing lashing his tail at a distance of a few yards only from where they were. Tom Burton fired, but only wounded him; and the beast, backing a little, was preparing to spring, when George sent a bullet right into his open, grinning mouth. It must have entered his brain, for he rolled over quite dead.

They stood for a minute admiring the dead panther, and wondering at his size; then George turned to look after the other smaller one. To his surprise it had disappeared. It was wounded, then, only, and not killed; the beast had managed to escape. A minute afterwards a cry was heard from the road below -- a shriek of pain and cry for help in one shout. "Eric!" exclaimed George, and instantly ran tearing down the steep mountain pass. At a turn in the road he came upon a scene which horrified him beyond description; there was Eric on the ground with the wounded panther upon him, her face close to his, her claws upon his chest. Eric's spear was on the ground, blood-stained, and blood was pouring from the wounded beast. George's rifle was unloaded, so he seized it by the barrels, and dealt the panther a tremendous blow on the head with the stock. Upon this she abandoned Eric, and was turning to spring upon George, when he rammed the muzzle of his rifle into her open mouth. She, no doubt, found it tougher than was agreeable, and at that moment Tom Burton came to the rescue, firing his last barrel into the animal's head.

So the conflict ended. On examination it was found that Eric was much less hurt than might have been expected, and after returning to the bungalow, and having the wounds on his chest and shoulder washed and bound up -- they were, in fact, little more than scratches -- did ample justice to the tiffin that had been prepared, and the party continued their journey to Mysore that evening.

CHAPTER XXI.

HOW SULTAN HAD HIS TAIL COMBED.

AFTER two days' journey we find our travellers comfortably installed in the dawk bungalow at Mysore: they have just returned from doing the sights of the place, such as they are. The Rajah of Mysore was absent, so they did not have the honour of an introduction to that mighty potentate; but they have been over his palace, where the greatest object of interest was supposed to be his collection of mechanical toys. The one in which he took particular delight -- so at least said the man who showed them over the palace -- represented a railway train, which, when some clockwork was wound up, went round and round upon its tiny rails, continually stopping at a little station with Sydenham written upon it. They also saw the menagerie of the Rajah, where tigers were kept in cages scarcely stronger than rabbit hutches.

Towards evening they were sitting in the verandah, talking over their intended hunting expedition of the next day, when Firmall ran in with the news that a great black bear had broken loose from the menagerie, and was rampaging about in the bazaar, where he had already killed a man. The whole party sallied forth at once; and, in an open space near the bazaar, they came upon a curious spectacle. As this bear had the death of a man to answer for, it had been determined, apparently, to destroy it rather than endeavour to recapture it; for this purpose some twenty of the Rajah's cavalry had been ordered out, and they set to work in a curious way. They had contrived somehow to entice the bear into this open space, and now they were wheeling round him in a circle, as fast as their horses could gallop, looking very picturesque in their gay dresses on their wildlooking little Arabs. Two or three times the bear made a rush as if to break the circle, but always paused in perplexity at finding no distinct object of attack in these whirling horsemen. The circle was gradually contracted till the troopers could reach the bear with their long curved sabres in passing. Meanwhile the shaggy monster, giddy and confused, stood on his hind legs, with fore paws outstretched and mouth wide open, a picture of indecision, stupidity, and helplessness; in a little time he was literally cut to pieces.

The place where our hunters expected to find their game was about five miles out of Mysore. Accordingly they started betimes in the morning, and by daybreak arrived at the intended hunting ground. They came to a small river -- or rather to the bed of a large one, but without much water in it -- beyond which a thick jungle spread out for several miles; and this jungle was famous as the resort of wild animals of all kinds. > The shikarees, who accompanied our hunters from Mysore, said that a tiger had been seen in this neighbourhood only a day or two ago; and on approaching the place, they came upon unmistakable signs of his presence there not long before. During the night a cow had been killed and partly eaten, and another wounded, out of a herd of cattle grazing at a short distance from the spot; and on the banks of the river, just where they were going to ford it, they found the pugs, or foot-tracks, of a large tiger in the sand. The shikarees conjectured that the tiger had gone back into the thick jungle, and was now probably asleep; as tigers generally sleep after gorging themselves.

In attempting to ford the river, Eric came to grief, and had a ducking. By way of doing things in proper style, he had come out tiger-hunting mounted on an elephant; the animal seemed to object at first to step into the water, whereupon Eric -- instead of leaving the matter to the Mahout, as the driver who sits upon the elephant's neck is called -- drew out his hunting knife, and stuck it into the beast's hind quarters by way of quickening his movements. The poor elephant kicked up tremendously, and off went Eric, souse into the water. However, he quickly picked himself up, and finding no bones were broken, bore the mishap more good-humouredly than was usual with him. He soon remounted his enormous steed, which, under the influence of kinder treatment, was persuaded to cross the river.

It so happened that Tom Burton's mount -- though very different from Eric's, for it was a stout little Pegu pony -- also objected to cross the river; and, as these ponies are proverbially obstinate, it was more difficult to deal with than the elephant. Tommy found that the little beast's will was stronger than his own; for he shied, and backed, and fought to that extent that Tommy was fairly beaten. George, who was mounted on a high caste Arab, with temper as perfect as his form, proposed that he should go first, as then, perhaps, the pony would follow. So he quietly rode down the bank, and choosing a place where the water was shallow, at some distance from the point at which Eric had crossed, he passed over to the other side. Along the opposite bank heavy bushes grew down to the water's edge; but beyond these bushes was a small space of clearing before the thick jungle was reached. George's Arab clambered up the bank bearing his master through the thorns and shrubs, and when they reached the clear space beyond George turned in his saddle and shouted to Tommy -- who was hidden from him by the bushes -- to know if he was following.

As George turned round, he observed a movement of the leaves and branches close to the spot where he had just passed through, and he felt his Arab begin to tremble under him. At that moment, with a roar which echoed and vibrated through the air, a tiger bounded from out the covert. Uttering a cry of terror almost like a human creature, the Arab darted away along the open space, his long silvery tail streaming in the wind. The terrible creature that he dreaded made a tremendous spring after him, but came down just short of his aim; clawing the tail only, and luckily missing everything else. Having failed in his first spring, the tiger seemed to pause; and George, perceiving a gap in the bushes, wheeled his terrified horse, leaped him down the bank of the nullah, and plunging into the water, which was deep at that place, the Arab swam back to the other shore. The tiger did not follow.

Both Tom Burton and Eric were startled by the roar of the tiger. The former, when he heard it, was still fighting with his Pegu pony, whom he had not succeeded in persuading to cross. But Eric was on the same bank as George, and although some distance lower down the river, still, from his elevated position, he could see George galloping away and the tiger spring after him; then they were hidden from his view by intervening shrubs. His Mahout urged on the elephant with all haste in pursuit; and as Eric passed along the bank opposite to Tommy, he called out -- 

"Good heavens! Burton, George has been carried off by the tiger."

The words had scarcely passed his lips, when George himself galloped up to Tom Burton's side.

"Not just yet, Eric," shouted George across the river in reply. "It was a narrow escape; but, as it happens, the tiger only combed old Sultan's tail for him."

Tom Burton now made a last effort to get his pony down the bank; the result was that they both rolled over in the sand together. Then he acknowledged that the matter had been fought out, and that the pony had the best of it; so, leaving the stubborn little animal with the horsekeeper, he took off his boots, and began to wade through the river on his own legs, as the two or three shikarees who were with them were already doing. But while they were making their way across the river, Eric had the sport all to himself, and was able to give a good account of the tiger by the time they reached the other side.

From the back of his elephant he had perceived the tiger crouching down under the bushes, nearly in the spot from which it had sprung out to attack George. Eric took a deliberate aim, and fired. The tiger was only wounded, and, bounding out from the covert, sprung upon the elephant with such force that the large animal swerved round, and nearly fell under the attack. Then Eric, leaning over the side of the howdah, brought the muzzle of his rifle within a few inches of the tiger's head, and fired into its ear. In an instant the brute's claws relaxed their hold, and it fell dead to the ground. The rest of the party came up just in time to witness Eric's success, and to congratulate him upon it. He was not a little proud of his exploit, and, as they all admired the beautiful coat of the dead tiger, he promised himself that the skin should be one of the trophies of his tiger-shooting that he would take back to England.

After this they advanced into the jungle; but the sun was already beginning to be powerful, and, not finding game immediately, Eric grew tired of it, and proposed that they should return to Mysore. The fact was he had good reason to be satisfied with his own day's work, and had no expectation of doing better than he had done already; but the other two considered their sport was only beginning, and very naturally objected to return at present. However, after some discussion, which was carried on rather angrily by Eric, George and Tommy consented to return, upon its being arranged that they would all come out to the same place on the following morning, and would start an hour earlier than they had done that day.

Upon what chances do the great events of our lives sometimes turn! Owing to Eric's impatience, these three young men came back to the bungalow at Mysore an hour or two earlier than they were expected, and out of this seemingly unimportant accident grew up a terrible consequence.

We all know the old adage, that when the cat's away the mice will play; and it is just as true, that when masters are out servants will disport themselves. Our three tired hunters dismounted at the bungalow, and, entering the verandah, began to call to their servants within the house, but, to their surprise, no servant made his appearance. Now, in the case of Firmall and Tom Burton's boy, this arose from the fact that they had taken themselves off to the bazaar, where they were still sauntering about; but Chineah, Eric's boy, was less innocently occupied, yet too absorbed in what he was doing to heed his master's voice. He was seated on the floor in the room in which his master slept, with his back turned towards the door. He had a bottle of brandy beside him, and, worse than that, he was smoking away as hard as he could pull at Eric Rolleston's most valued pipe -- a meerschaum, very elaborately carved, which had cost a good high price.

Eric was entering the room, but stood for a moment transfixed with astonishment in the doorway. His rage and indignation may be more easily imagined than described, when he beheld Chineah sitting there, with one hand resting on the neck of the brandy bottle and the other holding the meerschaum, and just in the act of placing the amber mouthpiece between his lips. Eric seized his riding-whip, which happened to be upon a chair in the room, and Chineah first discovered his master's presence by feeling a tremendous cut across his back. Down went the pipe on one side, the bottle on the other, both broken; and Eric seemed to work himself up into a sort of frenzy as he went on lashing the wretched servant, who rolled about upon the ground; nor did he pause till George, hearing the native's cries, rushed in, and was most indignant at what he considered his brother's cruelty. Chineah, writhing with pain and muttering incoherent threats in Malabar, slunk out of the room, while George reproached Eric in rather strong language.

"It is cowardly and brutal," said George, "to thrash a man in that way who dare not return a blow."

Eric was too furious to answer at all reasonably, and when Tom Burton came in, the brothers were at high words.

"How dare you interfere?" cried Eric. "Giving me advice, indeed, as if I was a child or a fool. The boy is my servant, not yours, and I shall treat him as I choose."

"Not while I'm here," said George. "I have the greatest contempt for a man who bullies these poor natives, and I will never stand by to see it done. What do you suppose people would think of you if they knew the way in which you flogged that boy? I can tell you that every one in India whose opinion is worth having would think as I do."

"Humbug!" retorted furious Eric. "I know what you'll do; you'll go and make a fine story of it to the General and Rhoda, in order to set them both against me, and wheedle yourself into their favour with your fine humanity. If there's a thing I have a contempt for, it is a man who tries to wheedle himself into a woman's good graces, by aping her own sentimentality and weakness."

"If you were not my brother, I would make you repent having dared to speak to me in this way," replied George, and he turned away and left the room in disgust.

There were several spectators of this scene between the brothers. Besides Tom Burton and the servants, there were an English lady and gentleman, who had just arrived at the dawk bungalow on their way to the Neilgherries. The lady, a pretty fair little woman, heard George's last words as he stood in the doorway between the two rooms, and saw his face, which looked red and angry enough as he turned away.

"What a savage-looking young man!" she said, laughing. "I wonder whom he was threatening in that fashion?"

Tom Burton followed George into the verandah, and tried to soothe his ruffled spirit.

"Look here!" said Tommy, "I must say that boy of your brother's has such a villanous face, and is such a brute altogether, that I don't wonder at his getting into a rage with him; and certainly it was an awful bore having that handsome pipe broken. I tell you what is much more serious than a native getting a licking, and that is these people having put up at the bungalow, for we shall have to hook it as there is a lady, and the bungalow is not big enough for all of us. Suppose we go back to Ooty at once? At all events, let you and me go back, and then Eric can go on with his hunting expeditions alone, and pitch into his servants without distressing you. I, for one, shall prefer his absence to his company on the hills, for it does rile me to see him making up to Rhoda."

George's brows contracted as Tommy made this not particularly wise speech, but he said nothing in reply, only seemed to acquiesce in his friend's proposal.

However, Tom Burton and George reckoned without their host, for directly they announced their intention of returning to Ootacamund, Eric declared he should go too, and, in spite of the coolness between the brothers, the three young men started off that night upon their return journey to the Neilgherries.

CHAPTER XXII.

CHINEAH'S REVENGE.

AT sunset on the day after that on which our hunting party left Mysore, they reach the dawk bungalow at Kulhutty on their return to Ootacamund. The sun is just looking his last upon the picturesque little bungalow, upon the woods and flowers around it, and on the dancing waters of the cascade close by. Already the valleys are in shadow, and the mist is creeping up from below, stealing after the travellers as they climb the ghaut. Eric, looking rather sulky, rides forward by himself in advance of the others; George and Tommy follow; and the servants bring up the rear, walking beside a bullock-bandy, which contains all the goods and chattels belonging to the three young men. As they dismount, they are surprised to hear the peculiar squeaking voice and strange dialect of our old friend, Julius Caesar.

"Hilloa!" cried out Tom Burton; "is that you, Julius? What in the world are you doing here?"

Out popped the grizzled woolly head of the illustrious negro, as he answered -- 

"Sartinly it am me, Massa Thomas. You gentlemens berry surprised to see Julius Caesar. Sar, Julius Caesar berry surprised to see you gentlemens. Sar, you berry soon tired ob your sport; de General and Miss Rhoda not expecting dis pleasure ob seeing you so soon."

"What are you about down here?" reiterated Tom Burton.

"About?" answered Julius. "Why, I'm berry busy; I bring all tings down for de General and Miss Rhoda to come here, and hab picnic all to dereselbs to-morrow morning. You tink no one must hab little spree but you gentlemens. Cho! de General and Miss Rhoda like a day's pleasure too."

"What!" cried George; "are the General and Miss Burton coming here to-morrow morning?"

Julius then explained that Sir John McDougal and Rhoda Burton, finding it dull up at Ootacamund, had determined to make the time pass more pleasantly by taking little journeys, and having picnics in the mountains where the most beautiful scenery was to be found. They had fixed upon Kulhutty as the first place they would picnic at, and Julius Caesar had been sent on over night to prepare for them.

Before the young men retired to rest, which they did very early, as they were thoroughly tired out, Eric Rolleston, in a conceited tone of voice, announced his intentions as follows: -- 

"I tell you what it is, George, I intend to cut you out with Rhoda Burton. After I've had a little more tiger-shooting, I intend to marry, and settle down at Rolleston Court; and Rhoda will make a famous mistress for it."

Both Tom Burton and George were thoroughly disgusted at this speech; yet each, by an effort, restrained himself from answering. George merely shrugged his shoulders, and muttered, "Conceited fool!" then strolling out on to the verandah, said he would have his charpoy brought out there to sleep upon. Tom Burton settled to sleep in the sitting-room; Eric retired to the only bedchamber the bungalow afforded; while Julius Caesar courted slumber in the dressing-room adjoining it; and the other servants slept in the verandah, or anywhere they could, as they always do in India. For a long time the tiny spark from George's cigar might be seen burning brightly in the verandah after the other inmates of the bungalow seemed to be sleeping soundly. Poor George! he turns from side to side restlessly, worrying himself, and pondering over Eric's words. What if Eric should be successful with Rhoda! What if she should really prefer the position of mistress of Rolleston Court, as wife of the younger brother, to sharing the chances and changes of a soldier's life with the elder? He could not feel sure how it would be. She certainly had seemed pleased at his admiration, and had shown some signs of liking for him; but then she had laughed and talked with Eric, and seemed to enjoy his society too. George groaned as he thought that perhaps Eric was destined not only to steal his birthright from him, but his love also -- the prize he valued above all earthly things.

Sick with anxiety, he found it impossible to lie still; so getting up from the charpoy, he descended the steps which led to the road in front of the bungalow; and throwing away his cigar, paced up and down at a short distance from the house, with his hands in his pockets. The moon was just getting up, and all the beauty of the Alpine scenery was shown as clearly as by daylight. Just in front of the bungalow grew rich, luxuriant vegetation, while, behind and above it rose the grand hills higher and higher, the summits shining in the silvery moonlight. Wandering on a little farther from the house, George came to a part of the road which lay in shadow, and from the edge of which the bank fell away down, down, down into the low country. A great stillness was upon everything; no sound was heard of bird or beast: to George it seemed as though he were all alone upon the mountain side. Presently he heard the jalousies of the bungalow opening, and in another moment saw a tall, slight figure, which he at once recognized as his brother, coming down the steps leading from the house. Eric stood for a minute in the moonlight, stretched and yawned, and then turned in the direction of the place where George was standing. A few paces brought him to the very spot; and the two brothers were side by side.

After standing for a minute without speaking, Eric began: -- "Strange that a man with your easy conscience shouldn't be able to sleep! Now if you had pitched into a native yesterday, as I did, one could understand your sleeplessness. Not that it's remorse which prevents my sleeping; but I found it so infernally hot in that close little room. Tell me what brought you out."

"My legs," laconically answered George.

"Sweet-tempered being!" retorted Eric. "One might as well speak to a bear with a sore head. However, I have pleasant thoughts to occupy me, that's one comfort. How jolly it will be to have Rhoda down here to-morrow! dear little thing; and how glad she will be to see me! I think I shall have an explanation to-morrow; it'll be so much plainer sailing when we're really engaged."

"That you are never likely to be," answered George in a loud, angry voice; "never shall be, if I can prevent it. I love Rhoda Burton, and intend to ask her to be my wife to-morrow. I warn you of this, Eric, and tell you frankly that no man shall come between us. I have loved her since I first saw her; I did not know myself how strong my love was, how long the growth of it had been, until lately. But now I feel what the thought of Rhoda has been to me, what sweet influence she has exercised upon my life, ever since I knew her. Yes; ever since the time that she first pitied and cheered me, when at my father's death I went, a mere lad, but with a sad and embittered spirit, to stay at her father's house. Be satisfied with what you have already gained in your life at my expense, and do not try to win Rhoda's love."

"I suppose you will allow the young lady to have some voice in the matter?" answered Eric in a contemptuous tone. "You have been at great trouble to warn me of your intentions, and so now I tell you mine again. I intend to propose to Rhoda Burton the very first opportunity; and I don't care a fig for you or your intentions either. We shall see if Rhoda prefers marrying me with my position, or you with yours: whether she will like to be the mistress of Rolleston Court, or follow your baggage-waggon in this infernal country. At all events she shall have the choice."

The young men had approached nearer to the bungalow while they were talking, and again a blind was opened softly. This time it was the blind outside the dressing-room, and Julius Caesar's woolly head looked out. "Golly, golly! dere's dem two young Massa Rollestons talking; I can hear Captain George's voice berry clear, and berry angry too. Cho! I berry sorry to hear this." Then craning out his neck, he saw distinctly emerge into the moonlight the figures of the two brothers: George was gesticulating and talking excitedly.

"Cho!" said Julius Caesar to himself, "I'd better call Massa Thomas out, and stop dese gentlemans' quarrels," and the woolly head disappeared again inside the room.

The young men were too much taken up with each other to notice the sharp cracking of some tender branch now and then as something stole along beneath the shadow of the jungle. Here and there a bough was gently put aside as the creature crept nearer to the brothers. What is it? Tiger? panther? what savage, prowling beast coming closer to its prey?

The giant trees stood witnesses; the creeping plants looked up and saw it pass; the moon cast down her pure pale light, showing the victim clearer to his murderer. For the crawling thing that now half emerges from the shelter of the trees, and is standing in shadow but a few feet from the brothers, is a man. The native servant, Chineah, has come to revenge the flogging of the day before. Ah, Eric, if the eyes you are fixing with such anger on your brother could but see a little way beyond! And, George, if you could but know that death is standing at your elbow, ready to strike the man so full of youth and life, who is making you feel so bitterly towards him now! A little at the side, but so close to George, that if he had been listening he might almost have heard him breathe -- stood the murderer.

As the brothers talked George's anger cooled, and his better nature rose up within him. He held out his hand to his brother, and said -- "Eric, you are right in saying that Rhoda should have the choice; and loving her as I do, I ought to have a fellow-feeling for you. We will each say what we have to say to her; but I do believe -- and God knows I say it sincerely -- I do believe, although I am a poorer man, I should make her happier than you would. Still, shake hands; and whatever happens let us try to be better friends for the future."

In that minute the figure standing in the shadow raised its hand, and through the silent night the sound of a sharp -- ping! -- re-echoed. Eric never took his brother's proffered hand; but, giving a short cry, and throwing up his arms, fell rolling on the ground. George sprang to catch him, or he would have fallen over the edge of the declivity; he raised up his head, and called to him -- 

"Eric, Eric! For God's sake speak." But Eric never spoke again.

Julius Caesar stood beside Tom Burton's bed, and shaking him violently, cried -- 

"Massa Thomas, Massa Thomas, will be so good as get up? I berry much troubled 'bout Captain George and Massa Eric; I hab hard berry drefful quarrelling. Massa Thomas, pray go out to see."

Tom Burton, who was sleeping heavily, roused himself on hearing these words, and jumped out of bed. It was at that moment the sound of the shot was heard.

"Oh! Lord God a mercy!" yelled Julius Caesar, as he fell upon his knees. "Cho! one young Massa Rolleston's been and shot t'other. Oh, golly, golly, golly!"

Tom Burton rushed out of doors, down the steps, across the road to the spot where the brothers had been standing a moment before, and where one was now kneeling over the body of the other. The bullet sent by the murderer's hand had gone to Eric's heart, and stretched him lifeless at his brother's feet. George was supporting Eric's head upon his knee, and it was hard to say which face looked most deathlike, that of George, or that of the corpse itself. Tom Burton and Julius Caesar were quickly followed to the spot by the other servants and the peon of the bungalow. Among them appeared Chineah, as if he had just come from the bungalow with the rest.

As Tom Burton stood beside George, he whispered -- 

"Good God, George! how has this happened?"

George answered in a choking voice -- 

"He has been shot: the shot came from the jungle at the side there."

At that moment one of the servants, running along the road within a few yards of the place where Eric was lying, struck his foot against something hard, and, stooping, picked up a pistol. He brought it to Tom Burton, and the moonlight, shining full upon it, showed George Rolleston's revolver.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE DARK HOUR BEFORE DAWN.

AS Tom Burton recognized the revolver, and observed that it had just been fired, his heart sank within him. He made no remark, but, almost unconsciously, and although he knew that others must have recognized it too, he stuffed it into his pocket. Then they prepared to carry the dead man into the bungalow. Alas! the case required no surgical skill: no one could look at that face and form without feeling sure that he was dead. They laid him upon the charpoy in the sitting-room, and George sat watching by his side, hardly seeming to notice anything that was going on.

Julius Caesar was in bitter trouble, and knocking his bullet head with his fist, kept repeating -- 

"Cho! berry terrible, bad night's works! Berry great, dreffel, miserable night's works! Good job if de end ob dis wicked world was to come. Massa Burton, sar, whatebber will my ole massa de General say? Whatebber will my young missis, Missey Rhoda, say? Whatebber will be done?"

Here his lamentations were interrupted by Tom Burton, who told him to see that the bandy was got ready to carry poor Eric to Ootacamund.

"Captain Rolleston and I will ride at the side," said he.

"Golly, golly!" cried Julius Caesar. "Captain George must go, sar, must run away, Massa Burton. Cho! what an unlucky, bad, evil night dis be, sar, for us all." And the poor old negro smote himself harder upon his woolly pate, and melted into tears.

"Hold your tongue! for God's sake don't talk in this foolish way before any one else," cried Tom Burton, "or you will be sorry for the mischief you may do."

"Massa Burton, sar," sobbed Julius, "I berry sorry to know what I know. I lub Captain George wid all my heart; but I heard de young men quarrelling most outrageous, and dat why I call you, sar: and just den, you know, we heard dat shot, sar. Oh! golly, what will be de end ob dis miserable night's work?"

"Hold your tongue!" reiterated Tom Burton; "that's all you've got to do. Don't even utter your absurd suspicions to me."

When the sun rose over the beautiful hills, a sad procession was winding its way up the ghaut leading to Ootacamund. George and Tom Burton were following the bandy on horseback. After riding a short time in silence, Tom Burton began -- 

"Didn't you say, George, that the shot which killed Eric was fired from the jungle close by?"

"I did," replied George; "and now I think of it, we ought to have searched and looked about before leaving the place. I was so occupied with poor Eric, I never thought of trying to catch the murderer. Has nothing been done to find him out?"

Tommy did not tell George that the fact was they had not tried to find out the murderer, because they all, except Tom Burton himself, thought they knew him already. He only pulled out the revolver from his pocket, and said -- 

"Look here! this is the weapon that the shot came from; it was picked up in the. road close by."

"My revolver!" exclaimed George. Then a great horror came upon him: it flashed across his mind for the first time that, unless the real murderer was discovered, he would be suspectedHis quarrel with Eric just before; their rivalry for Rhoda; the estate that he would inherit by his brother's death; and then his revolver found upon the spot -- all this accumulation of evidence against him rose up in an instant before his mind.

"Don't look so horror-struck," said Tommy, reading his thoughts; "no one who knows you will suspect you for a moment. But just let us consider calmly who it's likely to be. I have been thinking over it all night, and I'll tell you the result of my cogitations. Who could have got hold of your revolver in the first place? No one but our servants can get at our things. Just call to mind what a villanous countenance that fellow Chineah has. (Don't look back at him now!) Remember, too, what cause he had to hate Eric. I recollect his face as he slunk away after his beating yesterday; and if ever I saw revenge and hatred plainly written on a face, I saw them on his. Don't you think I'm right?"

"Heaven knows! But supposing it is so, how shall we bring it home to him?" answered George, hopelessly.

"That I have been thinking of, too," rejoined Tom Burton.

Then he confided to George a plan he had formed for detecting Chineah: a plan of which we shall presently see the result. Tom Burton himself thought it a very hopeful scheme; not so George, however, who was in a despairing mood. The idea that such a suspicion should fall upon him at all was unendurable. He thought of the counsel he had received so many years ago, to bear his trials with a stout heart; and he had done so hitherto. But what was loss of fortune -- what were all past trials, compared to this? Even if he should not be publicly accused or tried for his brother's death, would not the horrible suspicion cling to him for ever?

When they reached the level ground at the top of the winding road, Tom Burton proposed to ride on as fast as he could to the Rosery to bear the sad tidings, and prepare the General and Rhoda for the terrible shock which awaited them. He clasped George's hand as he parted from him, and looking into his poor friend's haggard, miserable face with his great brown honest eyes, he said -- "George, bear up like a man, old fellow." But our friend Tommy's voice was very thick and choky as he said these words, and put his horse into a gallop towards Sir John McDougal's house.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE DAWN.

OOTACAMUND looked fair and beautiful in the morning light. The sun, as yet too weak for anything but good, sent its sparkling beams dancing here and there on trees and shrubs, upon the dewy grass that glistened with its weight of diamonds, and on the flowers that were just opening their sweet eyes to look up into the sky. The day had broken so fresh, so glad, so gay; there were such sounds and sights of nature's happiness about; it was no wonder, when Rhoda Burton woke up that morning, that she dallied in her toilette, and sat at her open window to drink in great draughts of the fresh air. As she stretched her pretty head out of the casement, and watched the beauty of the brilliant flowers, and the deep green of the leaves, how she rejoiced in the glorious hill climate! No wonder she forgot the time, and only thought of beginning to dress, when she heard her uncle calling in his stentorian voice to the "boy" to let Miss Burton know that he and the "chota hasree" were waiting in the verandah.

Down the drive, through the white gates into the road beyond, ride the old General and his fair niece. Wild flowers cluster on either side -- camellias, jessamines, and high waving ferns. Wild strawberries and raspberries too grew in abundance, which made Rhoda long to stop and gather them. Birds with gay plumage flew here and there in the trees; and butterflies, more beautiful than any we have a chance of seeing in Europe, disported themselves merrily amid the flowers. Chatting as they ride along, Rhoda and her uncle soon reach a point in the road where they pause a moment to look down upon the low country, which they catch a glimpse of here through the opening in the trees. The fair landscape lay beneath them, with a blue mist over it softening it all, looking like a dream of some better world full of peace and goodness. They had scarcely checked their horses, when they heard voices near them and the trampling of horses' hoofs. A minute afterwards they see coming round a turn in the road, first, a couple of heads adorned with hats covered with white puggeries, just showing above the sloping hillside; then the full figures of a lady and gentleman make their appearance. We have seen them before; they are the people who succeeded our hunters at the dawk bungalow at Mysore, and just now they are evidently much excited about something. Such exclamations as "fearful!" and "too horrible!" may be heard before the newcomers arrive within a distance for conversation. Sir John recognizes in the gentleman a Mr. Mountjoy, an acquaintance of his holding a civil appointment on the Hills.

After mutual greetings had been exchanged, Mr. Mountjoy, a short, fat, jolly-looking man, exclaimed: -- "A most horrible thing has just happened at Kulhutty; two young Englishmen, brothers, I believe, have fought a duel, and one is killed."

Here the lady chimed in, addressing Rhoda: "Yes; and pray don't think of going down the ghaut now, for they are bringing up the body, and you would meet it. Isn't it fearful? The young men were at Mysore when we got there, and I heard them quarrelling awfully then; afterwards they came to Kulhutty, and one has killed the other. We were going to stop there and rest, but it had just happened, and directly we were told, of course we came straight on here. I'm quite ill with the shock it gave me, and the fatigue, and altogether;" and here Mrs. Mountjoy fell to crying.

Rhoda changed colour, and hastily said -- 

"Tell me the name."

"Oh! I don't know," sobbed Mrs. Mountjoy; "it's Royston, or Rowston, or something like it."

"Rolleston," said the husband; "and it is the younger and better looking of the young men who is killed. Of course, we know nothing about the particulars, merely the fact."

The bright colour in poor Rhoda's cheeks died out in a moment, and her face grew gray as the sky when the sun sets suddenly, behind the hills. "Ah! uncle," she cried, turning to the old General, and dropping her reins and clasping her hands; "it can't be I" And in that instant the whole world seemed changed to her. From a scene of peace and beauty, as it had appeared a minute before, it had suddenly become full of misery, wickedness, and discord.

Sir John McDougal laid his hand upon Rhoda's bridle, and looking at her with the tears starting to his kind old eyes, said -- 

"Rhoda, calm yourself, lassie; bear up bravely like a woman, dear." And he tried to soothe and quiet her.

"Let us go down and see what the truth is, dear uncle. Pray, pray do!" entreated Rhoda.

"Na, na," answered the old man; "that weel na'er do: you must e'en be guided by me, child. Rhoda, ye are not fit to meet what's coming up the hills as ye are. I shall take you back straight to the cottage."

Before Rhoda can reply, another horseman joins them. It is Tom Burton, who, we know, left poor George to come and break the news to his uncle and Rhoda. A glance at their faces tells him that they already know the worst. "Keep up, Rhoda," he says kindly, taking her hand.

Rhoda turned her poor troubled face towards him, and cried out sharply -- 

"How could you have allowed this? how could you have let them fight?"

Tommy, utterly at a loss to understand her meaning, looked at the General for explanation. Mr. and Mrs. Mountjoy had by this time ridden on towards the hotel; therefore Sir John repeated the story they had heard of the death of Eric in a duel between the brothers. Thereupon Tommy at once gave a correct account of the affair, omitting nothing, and adding his own suspicion of Chineah.

When the General had heard the story, he murmured sadly -- "It's a terrible position for puir George Rolleston; appearances are sair against him."

"Uncle, how can you say or think so?" indignantly cried Rhoda, her eyes flashing, and the colour rushing back into her cheeks. "George Rolleston is as good-hearted as he is brave; the noblest, best man I know. How could any one for a moment fancy him guilty of such an act?"

Just then the sad procession, which Tom Burton had left behind, came in sight; and Rhoda wheeling her horse round, rode up to George. Holding out her hand to him, she tried to speak, but failed signally, and burst into tears.

George pressed the hand that was placed in his; but he could not speak any more than Rhoda. He quite understood from her manner all she would have said; and he felt a thrill of joy in the midst of all his trouble, at the thought that her first impulse, on hearing what had happened, was one of generous sympathy for him in his terrible position.

Sir John directed that the remains of poor headstrong Eric should be brought to the Rosery, where they were placed in the spare room, and a great dread and gloom overshadowed the once gay cottage. What a change in a few hours! What aching hearts are there now!

Mr. Mountjoy, and two or three other gentlemen holding high civil appointments, who happened to be on the Hills at the time, arrived soon afterwards to inquire into the paiticulars of the death. Although it might rest with them to institute a formal investigation, they have purposely given the present inquiry a private character in the first instance, in consideration for Sir John McDougal. George was requested to describe to them how the death happened, which he did in a dreamy, troubled way; he felt confused at once by the shock of his brother's sudden death, and by the dreadful consciousness that he was himself suspected. He acknowledged frankly the quarrel with his brother, and simply stated how, even while they quarrelled, his brother fell at his feet shot dead by an unseen hand from the jungle. Then Julius Caesar gave an account of his hearing the loud angry voices; of his getting up to call Mr. Burton that he might interfere; of the sound of the shot ringing through the night; and of their rushing out to find George Rolleston kneeling beside his dead brother. Next, our friend Tommy was asked to say all he knew, and in doing so he took care to mention that Eric's servant was a person quite open to suspicion. Giving an account of the two occasions on which Eric had chastised Chineah, he endeavoured to raise the same suspicions in the minds of these gentlemen as already existed in his own. But he could see plainly that, although they expressed no opinion openly to him, they did not think as he did; and that the fact of George's revolver being found as it was, told terribly against his friend.

This investigation took place in the drawing-room; and when these gentlemen adjourned for tiffin into the dining-room, Tom Burton and George Rolleston were left together. When they were alone the two friends grasped hands; and George looked thankfully into Tom Burton's honest face as he read a belief in his innocence there. A rustle sounded outside the door, and a quick light step paused as the handle was turned, and Rhoda entered. Handsome as she always was, she looked then more beautiful than ever.

George went up to her, and said -- "Rhoda, do you know what those gentlemen in the next room think of me? do you know that everyone here, except Tommy, thinks that I am the murderer of my brother? Do you believe it, too?"

Somehow Tommy had the sense at this moment to guess that his sister would be a better comforter to his friend than he could be; so he quietly slid out at the open door, closing it behind him.

Then Rhoda held out her two hands to George, and lifting up her glowing face, looked into his eyes, and said -- "Look at me, George; dear friend, look into my eyes, and tell me if there is want of trust there. Thank God I can say that nothing those stupid old women fancy" (motioning with her hand towards, the diningroom) -- "no appearances -- nothing in the world -- would make me think you could do a base and cowardly thing. I know you too well for that, dear George."

Terrible as was the trial George was going through, he felt at that moment as if Heaven, in its mercy, had sent him consolation. The belief in him shown by this girl, whom he loved so dearly, seemed to make up for all.

"Rhoda," he whispered, "at such a moment as this is it wicked of me to tell you that I love you? Darling, these words of yours, assuring me of your faith in me, give me new life even while passing through this fearful time. Oh, Heaven forgive me, that I should bring fresh trouble on your sweet head, but the words burst from my lips. Darling, it is so long now that you have been my world -- my all, and I have suffered so in thinking that that poor dead lad had won your love from me. I know it is not so; though, had it been, you know as well as I do, that I would not have hurt a hair of his head. But, Rhoda, I should not tell you now about my love. Forgive me, dearest, for the dream I had that you might some day become my wife."

They are sitting on the sofa now, close to the large window that opens on to the garden. The jalousies are partly closed, but Rhoda can see the brightness outside, can see the flowers smile up at the sun as gaily as they did in the early morning. She hears the birds sing, while the butterflies skim through the air as merrily as they did then; the whole world is rejoicing, but Rhoda, who has just heard words she has longed to hear, has a sick feeling of great trouble in her heart that deadens and kills the joy which ought to be there.

"I have nothing to forgive, George," she answered him. "I thank you, dear, that you have told me of your love; and, George, whatever should be the end of this, however things may turn out, you will let me be your wife; let me help you to bear whatever may be in store."

George took her in his arms, and, pressing his lips to hers, murmured -- 

"Heaven bless my own true wife!"

A minute or two passed, and the door was suddenly burst open by Julius Caesar, who rushed up to George, crying -- 

"Captain George, sar -- oh! Miss Rhoda -- whatebber will be de end of dis terrible bad business? Ebbery one ob us, servants and all, are ordered by the General to go upstairs to look at dat pore dead gentleman. Oh! Massa Cap'en George, sar, dey say you had manslaughtered your brudder. If you hab, sar, pray run away, sar. Cho! whatebber shall us do?"

"Get up, you old fool," said Tom Burton, coming in behind the negro, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself. George, you had better come upstairs, as we are all going, and, Rhoda, keep quiet down here." And, kissing her, he whispered, "Keep up, dear, things may end differently from what they think." Then, turning to George again, he added, "Remember what the old gipsy said to you long ago: she foretold great trouble for you, George, but she told you to meet it all with a stout heart, and you would weather the storm. Didn't she, old boy?"

"I have thought of those words already today," replied George, "only I found it impossible to keep a stout heart; but now I think I can." Then, turning to Rhoda, he whispered to her, "I can now, dear, for your sake."

Stretched out upon the bed above lies the pale form of Eric Rolleston. Tom Burton has requested that each of the native servants shall be obliged to come into the room, one after the other, to look upon the dead body. The suspicions which he has made known have been thought little of by the gentlemen who are there, for they assert, speaking from their knowledge of the native character, that, if Chineah had murdered his master, he would have run away. Still they readily agree to the sort of ordeal which Tom Burton proposes, though without thoroughly understanding its object.

Indeed Tommy had not taken them into his confidence. He allowed them to suppose that he was acting merely from some vague hope of working upon the fears or the conscience of the guilty one, by putting him through the ordeal of a public and solemn denial of the crime. In the middle ages there existed in Europe a superstition that, when a murder had taken place, the wounds of the murdered person would bleed afresh if the murderer were brought into the presence of the body. And it almost seemed as if Tom Burton expected some phenomenon of this kind to take place on the present occasion.

The room is partially darkened; the blinds are closed, though the windows are wide open, and through them comes the sweet, fresh smell of the flowers in the garden, and the hum of the insects is heard from without, for the room is very silent. Footsteps tread softly and voices are hushed, as one by one they enter the chamber of death.

Soon the General and the other gentlemen, with George and Tom Burton, are standing in a semicircle at one end of the room. The bed stands in the middle, and the corpse lies on it, covered with a sheet all but the face.

The door opens, and Julius Caesar ushers in the native servants, who are told by the General, at Tom Burton's request, that they are required to advance one by one to the side of the bed, and looking at the dead man, to declare solemnly whether they know anything of the murder. The gentlemen face the natives, and can see any change that may take place in the black countenances.

Julius Caesar sets the example. Coming up to the side of the bed, he takes up one white hand, which lies partially uncovered by the sheet; he kisses it reverentially, and, addressing the dead body as if it could hear, says, in a voice choked with sobs, -- 

"Oh, dear Massa Eric! pore Massa Eric! you know berry well dat Julius Caesar did not kill you, sar. I berry, berry sorry for you. I berry sorry to tink I shall neber see your handsome face again. I bery miserabobble, indeed."

Julius Caesar drew back after making his little speech. Then the other servants advanced in turn, one by one, to the foot of the bed, and, looking at the dead man, each said a word or two in denial of any knowledge of the murder.

It is Chineah's turn now; he had held back till the last. Though his step is firm there is a strange gray shade upon his black face, and a glazed look in his eyes. He advances to the foot of the bed, and looks with a blank stare at what is lying on it. His lips move as though he were about to speak, but his voice seems to fail him, and there is a pause of nearly a minute, during which absolute silence prevails. At last the silence is broken by a voice, which is not that of Chineah. It is the voice of Eric, and proceeds apparently from the dead man's lips. It utters these words -- 

"Chineah, my servant, you are my murderer. Down on your knees, and confess your crime."

Chineah threw up his arms with a yell of terror, and sank grovelling on the floor.

"Pity, pity, sahib!" cried the murderer.

"You plenty hard master to me, gibbing plenty hard knocks and beatings. I gone mad when I shoot you." Then he fell back in a swoon.

I need not tell my readers who was the cause of the confession wrung from the lips of the murderer. Tommy had determined to bring into use again his old gift of ventriloquism in aid of his friend. He had never practised it since he had been in India, because, as he said, he did not wish to be made a show of, or to be asked to do it continually; but he had not lost the art. The astonishment of all present may be imagined when a voice, seeming to proceed from the dead man's lips, sounded through the room. Even the English gentlemen were taken too much by surprise at the first moment to understand whence the voice could come. As for Chineah he was carried away insensible, and, on recovering from his fainting fit, made a full confession of his crime.

All those who had suspected George before seemed to think now they could never do or say enough to make up for their mistake. His gratitude to Tommy was unbounded, and the only inconvenience the latter suffered from his kind action was that, from that day he acquired the notoriety as a ventriloquist, which he so much objected to. Thus passed away the darkest hour of George Rolleston's life, to be followed by a brighter sunshine than he had ever known before, and by the fulfilment of his fairest dream of happiness.

CHAPTER XXV.

CONCLUSION.

PASSING over a year, we will take a peep at our old friends again. This time, with the happy privilege of a tale-teller, I will transport you back to England to revisit Bymaston. It is harvest-time: in the fields, as yet unshorn of their wealth, the waving corn shines like a sea of gold; the great trees in the avenue are clothed with heavy foliage, and there is a rich beauty on the whole earth that tells of plenty and prosperity.

Coming out from under the glass door, which we remember now so many years ago -- the glass door which leads into the great hall at Rolleston Court -- are the figures of a lady and gentleman; it needs no conjuror to tell us who they are. The tall, bronzed-faced, fair-haired man is George, and the lady is Rhoda, his wife. They have been married about three months, and have just returned to Bymaston, intending to settle down as old married people. George left the service when he married. The General is expected home next year, when the term of his command in India will be over, and he will retire. Our friend Tommy, though, will have to broil for many a long year yet out in India, ere he can hope to return for good to Old England; but we may be quite sure that his good, merry heart, clear head, and joyous spirit, will help him well through any trials that may be in store for him. George and Rhoda are now wending their way down to the Rolleston Arms, to pay a visit to Norah and our friend John Martin, who are hale and hearty yet. The pony-carriage is at the door, and Rhoda, who is a first-rate whip, steps in, her husband after her, and they speed along down the avenue, and through the pleasant Berkshire lanes. The ponies step out briskly, and the little carriage skims along through sunlight and shadow. On some high ground they pause to look at the beautiful English landscape spread out before them.

"Rhoda," whispers George, "my heart is very sore when I think of poor Eric lying dead in India, and that through his death I have come into this great inheritance. My life seems now to promise so much happiness. The future stands out before me fair as that landscape, with but the one regret for the poor dead boy. Do you know, darling, that 1 feel afraid of so much happiness?"

"Dear George, dear husband," answered the young wife, gravely, "the same God who helped you through the storm will be near you in the sunshine." Then, laughingly, she added, "I must use Tommy's words, and bid you, as he would, still to look forward 'With a Stout Heart.'"

THE END.