CHAPTER I.

I suppose there is no need for me to tell the children of the nineteenth century where Madras is. It is one of the three Presidencies of the Indian Empire, and the principal town bears the same name as itself.

It is in the town of Madras that the first scene is laid of the story I am about to tell you.

It is very hot there, although it is close to the sea. Even at night, when the sun has gone down, it is still hot, and the little English children turn restlessly about in their beds, unable to find a cool place on which to lay their heads. Yet many English boys and girls, whose fathers are officers in the Queen's army, or hold appointments in the Queen's service, are obliged to live out there for years together.

The houses in Madras are not built like English houses, but have, generally speaking, many large rooms, all on the same floor, with several doors and windows to each room, which are left wide open day and night, that the air may blow through them and keep them cool; and there are verandahs both at the front and the back of the houses to shade the windows from the heat of the sun.

The gardens are not prettily laid out like our gardens in England, with beds of geraniums and roses, heliotropes and verbenas. These flowers would die under the hot Indian sun: they would scorch up and wither away; for the rain does not fall in frequent showers as it does at home, but all comes down together for three months at a time when all vegetation but such as is natural to the country dies, and it is called the "rainy season."

If roses and geraniums grow out there at all, it must be in pots, that they may be kept in the shade and often watered. There are seldom any trees in the gardens except cocoanut-trees, or any flowers except the great red "shoe-flower," which grows on a bush, and gets its name from the natives, who rub its red leaves upon shoes to make them black. That sounds strange, but it is the dye in the shoe-flower that blackens the leather. Does not a red poppy turn black when you hold it too long in your hands? It is all the same thing.

Do you like this description of Madras? I do not think you would like to live there, for English people cannot go out except early in the morning and late in the evening, because of the heat, and even then children are too tired to run about or play; and many of them fall sick from the climate and die. When children grow to seven or eight years old, and their parents are unable to take them to England themselves; they are often obliged to send them home in a ship alone or under the care of friends.

Then there are sad, sad partings between the children and their mothers, and it is only Jesus Christ who can watch over and comfort them until they meet again.

Some years ago there was living in Madras, with her papa, a little girl called Sybil Ransford. Poor little Sybil had no mother: her mamma had died when she was a tiny baby, and so she could not even remember what she had been like. She had never known any parent but her father, but she loved him enough for both. She thought him the very handsomest gentleman she had ever seen, and many grown-up people were of the same opinion as Sybil; for Mr Ransford had fair curling hair and blue eyes, and was quite a young man still. Strangers could sometimes scarcely believe he was the father of the tall pale child who was so constantly by his side; for Sybil seldom left him except when he was at mess, or on duty with his regiment. She was rarely happy out of his sight.

Every morning she used to go to the parade-ground on her pony to see her father drill his soldiers. They were not white soldiers, they were black; but they wore red coats and heavy "shakoes," like the English soldiers.

Some people might have thought they looked very funny; but Sybil did not think so, because she had been brought up amongst black faces, and some of them had looked very kindly at her.

Her papa's black soldiers often brought her presents of fruit and cakes and painted toys; and sometimes one of them would take her for a nice walk in the evening, and show her the trees where the wild monkeys lived and the flocks of green parrots; or the cruel jackal creeping under the hedges to try and steal the poor little chickens away from their mothers.

So, had you asked Sybil which she loved best, the white soldiers or the black, she would have been puzzled how to answer. She liked the white soldiers because they were so big and so brave, and her own papa was white; but she loved the poor black ones, whom very few people loved, because they were so kind to her.

But what Sybil liked best of anything on the parade-ground was to watch her own papa. She loved to see him walk about in his smart coat and trousers, with the white belt and shining ornaments, and the sword clanking by his side, and to hear him give the words of command in such a strong loud voice that she could hear them quite plainly where she stood. And then perhaps in the middle of the drill Mr Ransford would walk up to her pony's side and talk to his little girl a while, and send her home with a merry joke to see that his breakfast was ready against the time he should return to eat it.

But the evenings were still better when Sybil's black nurse used to dress her in a nice white frock and silk sash, and take her in her little pony-carriage (the same pony that carried her on his back in the morning used to drag her carriage in the evening) down to the Promenade on the beach where the band played, and where all the ladies and gentlemen of Madras used to assemble to listen to the music, and enjoy the fresh cool air that blew over the sea. And Sybil's papa could go there too after drill, for he was what is called an adjutant, which means an officer whose business it is to superintend the drilling of the soldiers every morning and evening.

Sometimes Mr Ransford came alone on his beautiful grey charger, sometimes with three or four other gentlemen; but whether he was alone or in company, he never overlooked his motherless child. Directly he caught sight of the carriage with the black nurse and Sybil in it, he used to stop short and get off his horse, and let his groom lead it away. And then he would take her hand and walk up and down the band- stand with her; and whether he was talking nonsense with ladies or business with gentlemen, his little daughter was always clinging to his side.

Some people said that Mr Ransford spoilt Sybil, and others, that he made an old woman of the child; but he did not care what they said. He had had nobody but little Sybil to make him happy for the last seven years, and he preferred her companionship to that of any one else in Madras. He loved her very dearly; more so than he ever told her or even himself, and so it is not to be wondered at if Sybil loved her father in return even more than most little girls love theirs.

But one evening Sybil had watched for her papa at the band in vain. She had wondered greatly why he had not come, and asked the reason of everybody she knew, but no one could tell her why. One gentle- man said he believed Mr Ransford was busy, and another that he had left the parade-ground with a headache; and when Sybil heard that, she looked very grave, and said to her nurse, "Ayah" (that is the name by which all children call their black nurses in India), "let us go home directly, papa may want me." And as the pony-carriage began to move away, she heard one of the gentlemen say to the other, "Ransford really ought to send that child to England; she grows more old-fashioned every day."

So there were two things to make Sybil anxious to get home that evening; one was to see if her papa had a headache, and the other to beg him never to send her home to England without himself. She felt as though she should die if she were ever separated from him.

But when Sybil arrived at her father's house he was not there, and she was ready dressed for dinner (for Mr Ransford made a point of dining with his little girl instead of at the mess-table), with her best blue sash on, and the locket with her dead mamma's hair in it, which she always wore round her throat, before she heard his horse's feet coming up the carriage-drive; not gaily as he generally rode, but slowly, and as if he were tired.

As he came up to the front of the house, Sybil ran eagerly down the verandah steps to meet him.

"Papa, my own papa, have you a headache?" she asked as he dismounted.

"A little, dear child," was Mr Ransford's answer, but his face looked very pale.

"Why didn't you come to the band, papa?" said Sybil as she laid her little hand upon the head which had befit down to kiss her. "Where have you been? Did you get a headache on the parade-ground? and was the sun very hot when you first went out?"

"How your little tongue does run, my darling!" answered Mr Ransford uneasily, as they ascended to the house. "Having a headache, I did not feel inclined for music, Sybil, so went and sat with a friend instead. Will that satisfy, my little woman?"

"No, papa, that will not satisfy me at all unless I can cure your headache for you. What can I do for it, papa?"

"Nothing, my darling, only leave me alone; but here comes dinner."

At dinner that evening Sybil's papa could not eat anything; he tried several times, but without success. At last the little girl grew tired of eating alone, or more likely she lost her appetite because her father seemed ill -- anyway she crept down from her chair, and sat upon the ground by the side of Mr Ransford, and laid her head upon his knee, yet he did not seem to notice her. Presently he started, and said, "What, you there, baby!" (for he often called her "baby" still;) "have you finished your dinner? Come, let us go into the other room, child." And when they had done so, he lay down upon the sofa and closed his eyes. This used to be Sybil's happiest time of all; for when they were alone after dinner, her father was accustomed to take her on his knee, or place her on the sofa beside him, and tell her long stories about her dead mamma. How pretty she was with her soft grey eyes and long golden hair; how good and gentle and kind; and how she had left all her own friends in England -- her father and mother, and brothers and sisters -- to come out with papa to India. How she used to talk of her little baby before it was born, and say how much she should love it, and how hard she would try to teach it to be good, and to love her and papa. But she had died when the baby was only two days old. And when Sybil's papa used to tell his little girl about her mother's death, his voice would grow very thick sometimes, andSybil could scarcely understand what he said. Then she would throw her arms about his neck and kiss his face, and often she felt something wet upon his cheek or beard. And Sybil would feel almost frightened, though she scarcely knew why; and one evening she whispered to him softly, "Papa, are you very sorry? did you love my mamma very, very much?"

And her father had answered, "O Sybil! don't ask me," and put his face right down into her little neck and kept it there, for several minutes, very still and quiet. But when he looked up again, he said, in a quick and lively voice, "Now, little one, what are we about not to amuse ourselves? Go and tell them to bring us more light, and we'll look at the scrap-books or put the puzzles together again."

Which Sybil was very glad to hear, for she had been almost afraid at first that her papa was crying.

CHAPTER II.

But on this particular evening of which I write, Sybil's father did not seem to wish to talk about mamma. When she nestled close beside him and said -- 

"Papa! shall we talk about mamma?"

"I cannot talk to-night, dear Sybil. I am not well enough," he answered.

So Sybil slipped off the sofa again, and went to fetch her little brush and comb. It was a favourite amusement with her, to comb out her papa's hair and beard, and to brush it, whilst he talked to her, and he often said he liked it. Many a strange trick had little Sybil played with that hair and beard; curling it, plaiting it, tying it up with coloured wools, "making it smart," as she called it, till it looked like a very funny beard indeed. And very patiently her papa bore it all, and only made a very wry face sometimes when Sybil pulled too hard at his hair, or hopelessly entangled it in her endeavours to comb it "nice and tidy."

But Sybil was such a spoilt little girl that I really think she sometimes pulled it on purpose to see her papa make faces. But she never pulled very hard on purpose, and she always kissed the place directly afterwards to make it well, so that Mr Ransford must have found it very pleasant after all. But when she commenced her combing and brushing on this occasion, he said, in a voice of pain -- 

"Not to-night, darling; I couldn't bear it."

Nothing seemed to go right this evening; and Mr Ransford seemed to be afraid his little girl might think so, for after another pause he looked round to where she was standing, in rather a disappointed attitude, with the brush and comb in her hand, and added -- 

"Does my Sybil think me cross? I am not well, my child; I shall be all right again to-morrow. Come here and lie on the sofa by me."

So Sybil laid the brush and comb upon the table and went to her father, and he put his arms all round her and held her close to him upon the sofa, and she felt his breath was very hot and his hands were cold. And when her ayah came to fetch her to go to bed, Sybil thought her father was asleep, he lay so quiet, and was about to slip away, like a thoughtful child, without disturbing him; but he called her back again.

"Good-night, my child -- her child -- good-night, my second Sybil!" but he said the words so low that the ayah could not hear them.

Sybil slept in the room next her papa's, and there was no door between the rooms -- only a curtain drawn across the doorway; and when Mr Ransford came to bed, however late it might be, he always went first to Sybil's cot and kissed her over again.

So she told her black nurse, as she undressed her, that she was sure her father would be coming to bed very soon that night, and she should stop awake until he came.

"I'm not a bit sleepy, ayah; my eyes are wide open as you can see, and I shall lie awake and think until my papa comes, because I want so much to kiss him again and love him. Perhaps my love might cure his headache, ayah. He often says I am his best medicine when he's sick, only medicine is nasty, and I know papa doesn't think that of me."

The old black nurse had lived all her life with English children, so she could speak English pretty well, though I do not think it is every one who could have understood what she said as well as Sybil did.

"Nonsense talking, missy," was her answer; "you shut eye -- go sleep. You not want see your papa again -- you seen papa all day -- time now, missy go sleep."

"My papa is not well, ayah," said the little girl in return. "His face is pale and his hands are cold, and I cannot go to sleep until I have felt if they are warm again."

"Missy papa all well to-morrow," replied the ayah, as she neatly folded up Sybil's clothes and put them in the wardrobe. "Missy go sleep -- papa go sleep -- both well to-morrow."

"I shall not go to sleep," said Sybil determinately; "I shall stop awake as long as ever I choose, so hold your tongue, ayah."

And then Sybil jumped into her cot, and the old woman laughed as though she had been a very funny child to be so rude, and tucked in the white muslin curtains securely round the little bed, so that the great Indian gnats they call mosquitoes should not get in and bite her little missy while she was asleep.

But did Sybil jump into bed without first saying her prayers?

Yes. I am sorry to say she did. God's holy angels had taken charge of her throughout the day. She had had food and clothes and amusement, and a kind father and nurse to look after her and love her, and yet she lay down in bed and forgot to thank God, who had given her all these good things. She always said "thank you" and gave a smile to the poorest black native who presented her with a flower or a fruit (for Sybil had very pretty manners), but to God she gave nothing in return for all His goodness.

Poor little Sybil! No one had ever taught her to do so. The poor ayah who had always taken care of her could not teach her because she did not know herself. She was a heathen who did not believe in God, nor knew that Jesus Christ came down on earth to save sinners, so how could she teach Sybil? If the little girl's mamma had lived, she doubtless would have told her all these things; but God had seen fit to take her mamma to live with Himself, and there was no one else to do it. For though Sybil's father was good and kind and gentle with her, he did not think of God, nor love Him nor pray to Him as he ought to have done; and therefore he had never taught Sybil to do so either. He had never even spoken to her about such things. Some clay he meant to send her home to England to her grandmamma, who would teach her everything that was right and proper; but meanwhile he let his little Christian child live without any more knowledge of God than the poor black children who had tumbled over each other in the dusty roads of Madras.

Sybil rode on her pony, and played with her ayah and dolls, and waited on her papa and romped with him; but she did not know who made her, and gave her that dear father, and her food and her pleasures, and health to enjoy them all. She had never been taken to church; and though she sometimes asked what churches were for, and who went to them, she was quite satisfied when she was told that she was too small to go to church yet, but that she should know all about it when she was older.

So little Sybil, who was not too young to die, jumped into her cot as though she had done everything that was required of her, and gave her ayah a playful pinch through the mosquito-curtains for a "good-night," which sent the old woman chuckling away.

Sybil's eyes were very wide open at first, and she was quite sure she should be awake when her papa came; but she waited a long time, and he did not appear. And then her great grey eyes grew heavier and heavier, till she forgot all about her papa, and dropped off into a quiet sleep.

CHAPTER III.

The little girl slept for some hours soundly and well -- then she suddenly awoke. At first she thought she had not been to sleep at all, and that the sounds she heard were those of her father's approach.

"Papa is coming," she murmured, half asleep; "my own dear papa."

But no one came, and the sounds seemed to grow louder and louder, until they awoke her entirely. The night-lamp was burning, and the old ayah was lying on the ground fast asleep by the side of her little missy's bed. Then Sybil knew that it was night, and that she must have been asleep too. But there were noises in the next room, her papa's bedroom -- noises of people walking about and talking, and of some one crying.

"Ayah! ayah!" cried the little girl, "what is that noise? Wake up, ayah; I am frightened."

But the ayah was fast asleep, and she did not wake. She had been standing about Sybil or walking after her all day long, and was very tired, so she only gave a grunt and rolled over on the other side and began to snore again.

Sybil sat up in her cot, opened the muslin curtains, and jumping out, ran with bare feet over the matting into the next room. There were lights there, and several gentlemen and servants, and they were all assembled round the bed. Sybil could scarcely distinguish one figure from another at first, because her eyes were still heavy from sleep, and the light dazzled them. But one of the gentlemen turned and saw the child in her white night-dress, her face full of surprise and fear, standing in the doorway.

"Go away, my dear," he exclaimed, almost angrily. "Where's the ayah? Tell her to take the child away."

But Sybil had recognised the speaker; he was the doctor of her papa's regiment, who had often attended her when she was ill; and she guessed at once why he was there. She would not go: she rushed up to the bedside crying -- 

"My papa! I want my papa. Let me go to my papa;" and then the gentlemen moved a little to one side and let her pass.

The first thing Sybil saw was her father lying on the bed, and dressed in the same clothes in which she had left him lying on the sofa. His face was still, his eyes were open, though he did not seem as if he saw anything, and his breathing was hard and very loud. It was not, then, her papa who had been crying. Sybil was glad of that. It was the black man who always waited on him and took care of his clothes; he was sitting by the bedside, and the tears were running down his cheeks.

Sybil was frightened at all she saw -- too frightened at first to speak; and the tears began to run down her own cheeks as she kissed her father's face. Yet he did not move or speak to her.

"O Dr Hodson!" she exclaimed, presently, turning to the doctor, "what is the matter with my poor papa? Is it the headache? or has he got the fever again?" For Sybil's papa had often had attacks of fever, which kept him in bed for days together.

"No, Sybil; it is not headache or fever," answered the doctor, gravely. "Your poor papa is very ill, and you must go back to your ayah, and be very quiet, like a good child."

"I will be very quiet -- I will be a good child," said Sybil, sadly, "if you will let me stay with my papa, Dr Hodson." But the other gentlemen, who were doctors also, said -- 

"Better not! it is no sight for a child; send her away, Hodson." And then a young officer called Mr Russell, who was her papa's best friend, and who had been looking at little Sybil with very red eyes ever since she entered the room, went and called the old ayah, and asked her to take her little missy away, and not to let her come back again unless she were sent for.

So poor Sybil walked out of her papa's bedroom quite quietly, for she was too sensible to cry and make a noise to disturb him'; but when she reached her own room, and the ayah wished to put her into bed again, she refused to go.

"No, ayah," she said, "it is impossible; sit on the ground and take me on your lap. How could I sleep whilst papa is so ill? Dr Hodson says he is very ill indeed. I must keep awake, in case I should be wanted."

And as she sat on her kind old nurse's knee, leaning her white cheek against the dark one, there was so much thought and trouble in her face, that she looked like a grown-up woman instead of a child. She did not talk much; she only sat there sighing and listening with all her might to the sounds in the next room.

Once she heard a voice say, "Shall we try bleeding again?" and some one answered, "It will be of no use;" and then Sybil half jumped up from her ayah's lap, but the old woman pulled her down again. "You can't go, missy -- you hearing what doctors say to me -- missy must stay here."

Sybil sat down again, but her cheeks had turned still whiter than they were before, and her eyes seemed to stare out of her head, as she whispered -- 

"Ayah, what did they say? No use! What do they mean? How no use?"

"Don't know, missy," said the ayah, who was nearly asleep again and nodding as she sat; "not hearing anything -- come missy, go sleep again, like good girl."

"You go to sleep, ayah," said little Sybil, "and never mind me; I will sleep when my papa is better."

But though the child sat for some time longer listening to the various noises that came from her father's room, no one appeared to tell her that he was better, or that she might go to him. The old ayah had nodded herself off to sleep again, and her arms had fallen by her side; so Sybil got off her lap, and listened outside the curtain which divided the rooms from one another. The voices were lower now; she could not distinguish what they said, but the footsteps were more frequent, and everybody seemed to be running about the room. She lifted a little corner of the curtain and peeped in. What were they all doing so close about her father's bed? Dr Hodson was holding a lighted candle in his hand right inside the thin muslin curtains. Oh, dear! that was very dangerous; he might set them on fire and burn her papa!

Sybil was just about to scream, when the doctor turned away from the bed, and placed the candlestick upon the table.

"It's all over, Daniel," he said to the black man, who was still crying by the bedside (for this black man was a Christian, and had been baptized Daniel); "your poor master's gone!"

"Gone!" cried little Sybil, forgetting what the doctor had said to her, and rushing into the room. "My papa gone! O Dr Hodson! where?" But the doctor only said, as he had said before, though in a softer tone -- 

"Go away, my poor little girl -- go away to the other room."

But the child did not hear him -- did not heed him. There was her dear papa still lying on the bed as she had left him: how could they say that he was gone?

"Oh!" she exclaimed, with a great sigh of relief as she caught sight of the figure, "it was a mistake, then. I am so glad! Dr Hodson, I thought you meant that my papa had gone away, and it frightened me."

The gentlemen looked at one another, and their looks were very sad. Poor Daniel caught the little girl in his arms and began to cry afresh.

"Oh! my poor little missy got no papa now; never see her papa any more!"

"Why does he say so?" demanded the child, with wide-open eyes. "There is my papa, Dr Hodson; why does Daniel say that he is gone? He will soon be better, won't he, and get out of bed and play with Sybil?"

Mr Russell turned away very quickly, and walked out of the room.

"I can't stand this," he said, as he passed through the doorway.

But Dr Hodson took Sybil in his arms and kissed her. He had little children of his own at home, and he felt for the poor little orphaned girl.

"Sybil," he said, gravely, "you have heard of people dying, have you not? When people are dead, they never speak or walk or get up again. Your poor papa is dead. He has been very ill, and now he is dead. He will never move about any more. He was so sick that no medicine could do him any-good. You must try and be a good child, and bear it as well as you can. I am going now to take you home with me."

Sybil stared at the doctor as if she did not understand what he said, which indeed was true. She had often heard of people dying, and she had seen dead animals. She remembered, when her little dog died, that its eyes were shut, and it could not move its legs or its head; and Daniel had dug a hole in the garden, and put her little dog in, and covered it all up with mould. But she could not believe that her own papa -- her dear, kind, strong, handsome papa -- was dead like her little dog.

"Not move again!" she said, in a tone of horror; "never speak again! Will my papa never kiss or love me again, Dr Hodson?"

"No, my poor child, he will not."

"Never play with me or walk with me? never move from that bed, or call me Sybil?"

"No, Sybil, never," said the doctor, sadly. "This evening they will put your poor papa in a coffin, and bury him in the cemetery, and after that you will never see him again."

"Put papa in the ground! put him in the ground and cover him up, like Daniel did to little Fido! Oh! take me back to ayah," exclaimed the child, in a burst of grief; "take me to old ayah; she always loved me best, next to papa."

But the old ayah was close at hand to take her little missy in her arms and try to comfort her. Dr Hodson's carriage was waiting, and he told the ayah to dress Sybil that he might take her home with him at once. He could not stay longer himself, and he did not like to leave the poor little child in that sad house alone with her dead father. But when Sybil was ready to go, and he took her in to have one more look at the body, he found it very difficult to get her away from it. She had been rather quiet before that, hardly believing it was possible what Dr Hodson said could be true; but when she was told to kiss her father for the last time, she became very violent in her grief. She clung about the body and sobbed, and her tears fell fast upon the still, cold face as she begged it to speak to her and answer her.

"Only speak to me, papa; my own, own papa! It is Sybil -- it is your baby, that you loved so much! O papa! I want you -- come back to me again!"

And Dr Hodson was obliged to disengage her little arras by force, and carry her away and put her in the carriage with her ayah, and then he jumped in himself and ordered the coachman to drive home.

CHAPTER IV.

As soon as Sybil felt that she had really seen the last of her poor father, she became quite silent, and hiding her face in her ayah's neck, cried quietly there. The doctor's wife, Mrs Hodson, was not at all a nice lady, and when she found that Dr Hodson had brought back little Sybil to stay with them, she was quite angry.

"As if I had not enough children of my own," she said to him the next morning as they sat at breakfast, and Sybil, who was sitting on her nurse's lap in the verandah, could hear her say it quite plainly, -- "but you must bring home an extra one to plague me. Why could she not have gone to Mrs Watson's or the Colonel's wife instead? They have no families, and plenty of spare rooms."

"Well, my dear," replied the doctor, "I don't think the poor little thing will take up much room here, and it will not be for long. As soon as ever poor Ransford's affairs are settled she will be sent to England."

"The sooner the better," said the lady, sharply; and when poor little Sybil heard it, she turned her face, and hid it in her ayah's bosom, whispering, "O ayah! let us go away from here; nobody loves me but you;" and the old woman soothed her, and answered, "That missus ought to have plenty shame to say such things of her little missy."

But Mrs Hodson was speaking again.

"What did Mr Ransford die of?" she demanded.

"Of apoplexy," replied her husband, in a lower voice, "brought on by exposure to the sun. Pray, don't speak so loud, Maria; the child might hear you."

"She must leam to hear such things," said Mrs Hodson.

Ah! it was few who thought of poor little Sybil's feelings on that day. It was a sad day for her, for in the evening they buried her papa in the Madras cemetery.

In India, when people die, they are always buried twelve hours afterwards, so that it seems but a very short space of time between the death and the funeral.

Sybil had often seen English soldiers and officers buried. She used to like to go with her ayah, and watch the long line of gentlemen, all in their uniforms, that followed the funerals, and to hear the band playing sad music, and the men fire three volleys over the grave. She had not thought of much else beside the music and the firing and the pretty sight. It had never Struck her to pity the poor friends of the man who was being buried, for the sorrow they were feeling for his loss. But on the evening when her papa was buried, when the solemn music began, and she heard the sound of the muffled drums, she ran about the room, and sobbed so bitterly, that the old ayah thought her little missy must be going mad; and she could only keep quiet at last by burying her head in her nurse's lap, and stopping both her ears with her fingers, until the strains of the band had died away. But when the burial service was concluded, Sybil heard the sharp report of the muskets, as they were fired over the coffin, quite distinctly, although her fingers were still in her ears. And she jumped up, crying out -- 

"Ayah! ayah! they will hurt papa -- the guns will hurt my papa -- oh, my poor papa!" and then fell to sobbing again, until she sobbed herself to sleep in her nurse's arms.

Yes! they were sad days, that one and many after it; and the only comfort poor little Sybil had was the affection her old ayah showed her. Mrs Hodson did not become more kind; indeed, she scarcely ever spoke to her, or, if she did, and Sybil did not smile in return (as her own children did, who had nothing to make them unhappy), Mrs Hodson would say she was afraid that she was sulky, and that little girls who were sulky ought to be punished. And the little Hodsons were not kind to Sybil either. They saw their mamma was not so, and they copied her in everything. At last, about a fortnight after her father's death, Sybil heard Dr Hodson tell his wife that the ship Lady Gower was going to sail in a few days, and that he should like to secure a berth in her for Sybil Hansford.

"That is to say," added the doctor, "if you think your friend Mrs Barlow would be troubled with the charge of her; because, now that poor Ransford's affairs are settled, I am afraid we should be scarcely justified in sending the ayah home with her. There is barely sufficient to pay the child's passage-money: Ransford always lived up to his pay."

"Lieutenants have no business with wives or children," retorted Mrs Hodson. "However, I'll speak to Mrs Barlow at once about it, for I'm sure I shall be only too glad to get the child off my hands. Her miserable little face is a perfect wet blanket to anything like enjoyment."

Poor Sybil! they did not go the right way to work to make her less miserable.

She was always overhearing something about the trouble she gave, or the nuisance she was; so that she was glad to hear she was so soon to go to England. Perhaps Mrs Barlow might be a kinder lady than Mrs Hodson. Perhaps she might not find her such a trouble and a nuisance.

But that ayah was not to go with her was a great grief to Sybil. She had always calculated upon having her old nurse to make the voyage home with her, for ayah had taken care of her ever since she was a tiny baby, and Sybil could not remember the time when her queer, kind black face had not been at hand to smile at, or encourage, or comfort her. But it was to be so no longer.

Mrs Barlow said she would be very happy to take care of Sybil until she reached England, where she was to go to the house of her grandmamma, the mother of her poor mamma, whom she had never seen. And old ayah was told that she must go back to her own home, or go and take care of some other little English child, because she could not, and she must not, go with Sybil. All the little girl's tears and entreaties were of no use.

Dr Hodson knew that he must not spend more money than he had of her papa's for Sybil, and so he could not listen to her.

She had a sad parting with the faithful old nurse and from Daniel, who said he would go home for nothing to wait on his little missy, if the doctor would only pay his passage-money to England; but even that was more than Dr Hodson felt himself authorised to do.

The doctor himself took Sybil on board ship, thinking to leave her under the care of Mrs Barlow; but Mrs Barlow had several children and a great deal of luggage, so she did not come on board till the very last thing; and as Dr Hodson had business in Madras, he could not wait to see her, and was obliged to return on shore. He called one of the stewards of the ship, however,-a nice, good-natured black man named Thomas, whose business it was to wait on the passengers at dinner,-and told him to look after the little girl till Mrs Barlow arrived, which Thomas promised to do. And then Dr Hodson kissed Sybil two or three times, and bade her cheer up, and be a good girl, and left her, looking very sad and mournful in her black frock, sitting all alone on the deck of the Lady Gower.

CHAPTER V.

Have you ever been on board a large ship? not a steamer, but a large sailing ship that is strong enough to go to India, or America, or New Zealand, or all round the world for the matter of that. If you have, you will agree with me that it is a very wonderful and beautiful sight. The nice clean decks, that look long enough to take a walk on, the white sails, the numbers and numbers of ropes (each one of which has its own name), the red and blue flags flying at the mast-head, and the sailors in their blue trousers and striped shirts, all make up a very pretty picture to look upon. But when you go on board ship for the first time, it is very confusing, particularly when it is a vessel like the Lady Gower, just going to start on a long voyage of several months.

As Sybil sat where Dr Hodson had left her, her poor little cheeks stained with tears, all her thoughts dwelling on her dead papa and absent ayah, she felt frightened to think she was all alone on this great ship, and knew nobody to speak to. Men were running here, there, and everywhere, carrying boxes to put into the hold (which is a deep place like a cellar at one end of the ship, for stowing away luggage in). The captain (whom Sybil thought looked cross, but that was only because he was very busy and had so much to think of) was shouting his orders in every direction. Baskets of cocks and hens, which had not yet been unpacked to put into the coops, were lying on the poop (which is the name the upper deck is called by), and there was enough cackling amongst them to deafen one. At another time, Sybil would have been amused to feed the cocks and hens with the biscuit she held in her hand; but to-day she did not feel as though she cared to do anything.

As she leaned over the side of the ship, looking wearily at the native boats called "catamarans," which were just like logs of wood with black men playing see-saw across them, she saw a boat coming towards the Lady Gower with a lady and gentleman and some children and black servants in it. The children were rude children, Sybil could see that, because they kept jumping up and down in the boat, and making their mamma scream at them to be quiet. The lady must be rude too, Sybil thought, because she called out so loud and had such a red face. She watched this boat for some time before it reached the side of the ship, for it almost amused her to see the children and ayahs, and the lady and gentleman, all fighting together to keep the naughty children from tumbling into the water and being drowned, as they came up the steps of the gangway.

But they were all landed on deck safely at last, and then Sybil saw that there were five children -- four big boys and a littly baby in arms. The boys all looked rude and naughty, and one of them put his tongue out at Sybil directly he saw her, which made her think she was very glad they did not belong to her, and that she was sure never to like them; which was a silly thought to have before she even knew their names. But they disappeared into the cuddy or saloon (which is the sitting-room on board a ship), and Sybil had soon forgotten all about them.

There were plenty of new sights for her to see, and as boat after boat discharged its cargo at the ship's side, she began to wonder when Mrs Barlow was coming. It seemed very strange to her to see the sailors each take a great stick, and put it into a hole in the side of a round thing like a table which stood in the middle of the quarter-deck, and then all run round as hard as they could, singing songs as they went, and making the thing like a table turn round with them.

Sybil thought at first that they were playing a game; she did not know that the round thing was the capstern, and that when the sailors twisted it round, they wound the chain cable about it as we wind thread upon a reel, and at the end of the chain cable was the anchor, which had been sticking in the bed of the sea all the time that the Lady Gower lay at Madras, and keeping her fast in one place so that she might not float away.

As Sybil was watching the sailors and listening to their song, which made the tears come into her eyes, though she hardly knew why, the red-faced lady whom she had seen go into the cuddy with all her rude boys came out again upon the quarter-deck. She put a gold eye-glass, which she wore by a large gold chain round her neck, up to her eye, and looked all round the ship first, and then she called one of the stewards and said to him --

"Steward! is there not a little girl come on board to my care-a Miss Ransford?"

"To what name, ma'am?" said the steward.

"For Mrs Colonel Barlow," said the lady. And then the steward answered, "Oh yes, ma'am; there she sits on the hencoop-that young lady in black."

Sybil had heard all this conversation from the beginning, but she had not stirred from her seat, for when she found that the red-faced lady was Mrs Barlow, her poor little heart began to beat so fast, she felt as though she could not move. But as soon as Mrs Barlow saw her, she called out --

"What are you doing there, child? Why don't you speak when you hear your name mentioned? Come down to the cabin directly."

So little Sybil slipped off the hencoop, and went timidly down to the strange lady, who took her by the hand and led her into the saloon. The gentleman was there and all the boys, but Mrs Barlow only said as she entered -- 

"This is the Ransford child that I promised Mrs Hodson to look after. Now, my dear, go and sit down by the ayah, and don't be troublesome."

So Sybil sat down as she was bid, and listened to all that was going on. She soon found that the gentleman, Colonel Barlow, was not going to England, nor was one of the ayahs, but all the rest of the party were. They had secured two cabins, and Mrs Barlow and three of the children were to sleep in one of the cabins, and Sybil and the other two children and the ayah were to sleep in the other. Sybil was very silent. She could not be friends all at once with such big boys; so she sat on the floor by the ayah, and stroked the baby's cheek with her soft little hand. The poor ayah, who was called Coolemah, had left some little dirty black children whom she loved on shore at Madras, and as she sat there, and thought how many months it would be before she saw them again, the tears kept running one by one down her cheeks. Little Sybil used often to kiss her own old ayah, who was so kind to her; and so, when she saw this poor ayah crying, she pressed her sweet little pale face against hers, and begged her to be comforted. But one of the boys saw her do so, and he burst out laughing, and shouted so loud to his mamma to look at the new girl kissing the ayah, that poor Sybil was ashamed, and hid her face in Coolemah's cloth, and did not like to look up again. And then the anchor was taken up, and the ship began to swing about, and everybody was ordered to leave her unless they were going to England; and so Colonel Barlow rose in a great hurry, and kissed Mrs Barlow and all the children, and prayed God bless them till he met them again, and rushed away and got into his boat to go on shore again. The boys all ran to the ship's side to see the last of their papa, and their mamma ran with them, and so did plenty of other people; and everybody waved their handkerchiefs and said good-bye as long as the people in the ship could see them or hear them. But there was no one to say good-bye to little Sybil, or to bid God bless her before she started on her long journey; and when the father was kissing his children, her tears fell fast upon her black frock.

CHAPTER VI.

When the Lady Gower was fairly under way, and the town of Madras only looked like a line of white along the sea-shore, Mrs Barlow dried her eyes (for she had been crying too when she said good-bye to Colonel Barlow), and began to unpack some of the boxes in her cabin, and set things to rights before they got out to sea.

I do not suppose that either she or the boys meant to be really unkind to little Sybil on this first day of their acquaintance; but they were all hardy and strong, and had been used to shift for themselves; and Sybil was a poor, weak, little creature, who had been petted and made much of all her life, and it seemed as though she were sadly knocked about amidst all the confusion of unpacking. She sat down in a corner of the cabin she was to sleep in, for she felt very much in the way of everybody, and watched the ayah unpack the baby's clothes, that they might be ready to put him to bed when night came; but presently she felt very giddy about her head, and then she felt very sick and uncomfortable in her stomach; and when the ayah saw how pale she had turned, and that she was taken with sea-sickness already, she took off her frock and other things, and put her into her bed. It was a funny little bed, called a "bunk;" it was only made of three little planks nailed on the floor close to the wall, one long one for the side, and two short ones for the head and foot of the bunk; and it was so narrow that Sybil could hardly turn round in it. It was very uncomfortable, but it could not be helped; every one is obliged to put up with that kind of bed on board a sailing vessel, because there is very little room to spare, and they must make the most of it.

Have you ever been sea-sick? It is very unpleasant, I can assure you, and difficult to bear well. You feel so giddy in the head that you cannot stand, and everything you look at seems to be turning round and round, and you cannot eat any breakfast or dinner or tea, and sometimes you have so much pain in the stomach that it becomes still harder to be patient. By the next morning the ship was rolling away on the open sea, and all the children were sick, and so was Mrs Barlow and the ayah; only the baby kept well, and made his mamma and his nurse sit up and amuse him when they were so ill they could hardly lift up their heads. But Mrs Barlow's children soon got over it; one day afterwards they were able to eat their dinner and get out of bed, and so was Mrs Barlow; only poor little Sybil remained too sick to eat anything, and the pain in her head was very bad.

On the third day she was lying alone in the cabin, for Mrs Barlow could not spare the ayah to sit with Sybil, the boys being so naughty and troublesome on deck that they required constant watching lest they should get into mischief, and it was quite as much as their mamma and the ayah could do to keep them in order; so Sybil was obliged to be left alone. The weather was very warm, and the poor little child was very thirsty, and her lips were parched and dry; but the ayah had forgotten to put any water within her reach, and she was too weak and giddy to rise up and get some. She had listened to the rattling of the plates and knives and forks, and the clinking of the glasses, as dinner was served to the ladies and gentlemen in the cuddy, but no one had come near her; and now the afternoon began to grow dark, and she tossed about and turned feverishly from one side to another of her uncomfortable bed, and yet nobody came.

Sybil had called "Ayah!" two or three times, but her voice was feeble, and the ayah was on deck, and there was too much noise in the saloon to allow anything to be heard there. At last the poor little girl felt as though she were quite forsaken, and she began to moan and cry. She had buried her face in the pillow, so that she did not hear footsteps approaching; but suddenly a light came into the cabin, and then Sybil looked up and saw a gentleman standing there with a lamp in his hand. He was a tall gentleman, thin and pale, and with rather grey hair, but his face looked very good and kind; and as Sybil turned in her bunk to look at him, he was bending over her with great pity in his eyes.

"What do you want, my little girl?" he said; "what are you crying for?"

Sybil was ashamed to say that she was crying for water to drink, and so she faltered out -- 

"I'm all alone; ayah won't come to me."

"Perhaps ayah is busy, my child, and cannot come. Cannot I get you what you want?"

"Please, sir, I want some water," said the child; "I am so thirsty."

Then the gentleman went back into the saloon, and fetched a glass of nice, fresh cold water, and brought it to Sybil. As she drank it, he lifted her up on his arm that she might feel strong, and before he laid her back on the pillow, he said -- 

"Will you give me a kiss, little girl, for that nice water?"

And Sybil's lips went up willingly to thank the kind strange gentleman with a kiss.

"What is your name, dear?" he asked next.

"Sybella, sir -- Sybella Ransford; but papa always called me Sybil."

"Is your papa on board, Sybil?"

Sybil shook her head mournfully, and the tears began to flow again.

"I have no papa or mamma," she said, sadly.

The gentleman did not notice her words, but he stooped down quickly, and kissed her again upon her forehead.

"I hope you will soon be well, Sybil, and then you must come into my cabin sometimes and talk to me. Would you like to do so?"

"Very much, sir, because you seem so kind."

Just at that moment in came the ayah with the baby on her arm, and a cup of tea and some bread and butter in her hand for Sybil. She stared when she saw the strange gentleman, but the gentleman soon made her understand all about it.

"We have been wanting you here sadly, ayah," he said. "You see, I have been waiting on your little missy, and she thinks I am a much better ayah than you are. You quite forgot to leave her anything to drink whilst you were away."

"Ah! poor missy!" said the ayah. "I wanting come before, but those boys -- very bad boys -- take up all my time. I much rather stop with baby and missy."

"Well, I hope your missy will soon be out of bed, and able to run about after you, ayah. Good-night, Sybil. Make haste and get well, and then we will have a nice talk together."

And so the kind gentleman got up and left the cabin; but as Sybil lay in her bed that night, she could not help thinking a great deal about him, for she thought she had never seen so kind a face before except her own papa's. She longed to get better, that she might see him again, and have the talk he had promised her. And I think the longing had something to do with making her well, for Sybil only lay in bed one day after that.

On the morning of the fifth day, as the boys were getting up, she said, "Ayah, I think I could get up too;" and, sure enough, when her clothes were fastened on, and she had had her hands and face nicely washed, Sybil did not feel sick at all.

The other boys had come in from their mamma's cabin by that time, and they were all four standing there together.

"Come along!" they said to Sybil; "come up on deck, and we'll show you such fun;" and so Sybil put her hand in the hand of the biggest boy, and left the cabin with them. The ayah screamed after them to be steady and quiet, and come back when the breakfast bell rang, but before she had done speaking, they were out of sight, and had pulled Sybil along with them.

CHAPTER VII.

The fresh sea-breeze that was blowing over the deck seemed to put new life into the little girl. She stood and drank it in, as she had drank the cold water on the day before; it made her feel strong again, and almost happy.

"What's your name?" asked the eldest boy, abruptly; for poor Sybil had been too sick to have any conversation with them before that morning.

He was not at all a nice boy to speak to or look at, for he was as rough and rude as though he had been a vulgar grown-up man, and had rushed out of the cabin without allowing the ayah to wash or dress him properly, so that his hair was hanging over his forehead, and he had a great black smudge across his face.

"Sybella Ransford," replied the little girl, timidly.

"Sybella I who ever heard of such a name?" exclaimed the boy, rudely. "Why, my papa has got a horse named Bella, and Mr Coleman's dog is called Bella too. It's the name of a horse or a dog. Here, Adolphus! I say, this girl has got a dog's name."

"It's not a dog's name," cried little Sybil, warmly; "it was my poor mamma's name."

"Then your mamma had a dog's name. I wouldn't have the name of a dog for ever so much. My name's royal."

"What is your name?" demanded Sybil, in her turn.

"Albert Edward!" said the boy, loftily; "that's the Prince of Wales' name you know; mamma called me after him."

"Is he a friend of your mamma's?" asked Sybil, innocently.

"Well, yes; I suppose he is, only she has not seen him yet. But when we get home to England, mamma is going to the Queen's palace and the opera with feathers in her head."

Having delivered himself of which astounding piece of intelligence, Albert Edward turned about and regarded Sybil steadfastly in the face, as though wondering what she would find to say after that. What she did find to say seems as though she could not have stopped to think what a very grand thing it is to go to the Queen's palace and wear feathers in one's head.

"And what are your brothers' names?" she said to the Prince's namesake.

"He," pointing to the next eldest, "is Adolphus Frederick, and the other two are George Augustus and Reginald Francis, and the baby is Leopold Alfred."

"They are beautiful names," said little Sybil, in a tone of awe. "But," she added, presently, "I wonder how your mamma can remember them all."

"Oh! it's easy enough!" replied Albert Edward. "We call them Dolph, and George, and Regy. Only mamma always calls me by my full name; she says it's more loyal. Halloa! there's the breakfast bell. Run hard, or you won't get any!"

The decks were very slippery, and as the four boys rushed past her to the cuddy, they knocked poor little Sybil over, and made her cut her lip.

She was a brave little girl in general, and not given to make a fuss about nothing, but her lip was bleeding fast, and she felt weak and shaken by her fall. So she sat down for a minute on a bundle of ropes close by, and a kind old sailor brought some water in a tin pannikin and washed the blood away from her mouth, and told her that she would soon have what he called her "sea-legs," and be able to run and jump on the deck as well as if she were at home.

Sybil did not tell the sailor that the boys had knocked her down, but she thanked him for his kindness, and got up on her feet and tried to walk again. It was hard work getting to the cuddy door, and several times she nearly fell down, but she managed it at last; and then she found that all the children in the ship were seated round the table at breakfast, with their ayahs and the stewards waiting on them; and some were crying, and some where laughing and talking, and some were trying to snatch at the dishes on the table, until Sybil thought she had never seen such a number of rude children together in her life before.

She crept into a seat close by the door. Albert Edward, and Dolph, and George, and Regy, were sitting on the opposite side of the table, and Coolemah with the baby in her arms was attending to their wants; but they caught sight of Sybil, and shouted to her to join them.

"Come here, Bella!" cried Albert Edward, whistling as though he were calling to a dog. "Come here, poor dog!" but the child only shrank away from him, and refused to quit her seat.

"What will missy have?" said Coolemah, who had walked round the table directly Sybil appeared. "I wish missy coming before. Children eat up everything so fast."

Sybil looked up and down the cuddy table, but it was difficult to make a choice. At the top stood a large dish of boiled sago, cold and shaking like a jelly; at the bottom, a similar one of arrowroot, which, with thick stale bread and butter, and cups of strong black tea without any milk in it, formed the children's morning meal.

Sybil had been used to see the breakfast table laid with fish, and eggs, and curry, and rice, and fruit, both fresh and preserved, besides many other nice things; and the child's stomach, weak from her recent illness, turned sick at the uninviting fare offered to her.

"I don't want anything, ayah, indeed, I don't," she said, with a slight shudder, as she turned her face away.

"Oh! missy trying," was the ayah's soothing answer. "Missy been plenty days without food; must eat little breakfast now."

Sybil was a gentle submissive little creature, and so she took the piece of bread and butter which Coolemah put into her hand and tried to eat it. But the bread was part of a batch that had failed in the baking; it was sour, and not fit to send up to the first-class passengers' table (such things have occurred on board of sailing vessels, and doubtless will do so again); and the butter had had sugar and peppercorns put in it to keep it sweet, so that it had a sickly and unnatural taste to Sybil, and made her worse instead of better. And when the ayah noticed how white she grew, she saw that to eat was an impossibility to her, and let her do as she chose. So she sat and watched the greedy ill-mannered children fighting for the bread and butter, and throwing the sago and arrowroot about the tablecloth, so that many of them got more food than they could eat, and others were left with hardly any at all. And Sybil thought of the happy quiet breakfasts she used to have with her papa in, Madras, when he allowed her to pour out his tea and' hand him everything he wanted, till the tears rose to her eyes, and made the fighting children, and the food, and the ayahs all go away, and nothing remain but the remembrance of a great sorrow.

"Missy a little sick still -- had better go on deck," said the ayah presently; and the child, still hungry and faint, crept away from the hot crowded cuddy and sat down on a little wicker chair which stood outside it.

Presently all the other children came tearing out upon the deck and surrounded her.

"That's my chair," exclaimed a strong hearty-looking girl of about seven or eight years old, who had ringlets of red hair hanging down her neck; "how dare you sit in it?" and without ceremony, she pulled the chair from right under poor Sybil, and left her lying on the deck. She could not help crying this time, for she had hit her head very hard; but Coolemah soon came to the rescue.

"You naughty bad girl!" she said to the young lady with the ringlets, as she pushed her unceremoniously to one side, "I telling your mamma what you do to my poor missy."

"Well, tell then," rejoined the child, whose name was Anna Hawkins; "what do I care? What business had she to take my chair? It's my own chair, that mamma bought me at Madras, and no one shall sit in it unless I choose."

"Go way, you very bad child!" reiterated the ayah, as she rubbed Sybil's head with the hand which was not occupied with the baby.

"She's crying! she's crying!" exclaimed Master Dolph, who had just caught sight of Sybil's tears.

"Cry, baby, cry; stick your finger in your eye,

And tell your mother 'twasn't I,"

sung out Albert Edward as he danced round Sybil and made mocking gestures at her.

He danced too near, however, for Coolemah made a dash at him with her hand, which caused him to step backward over a rope and go sprawling on the deck; upon which he ran into his mother with a long story that the ayah had beaten him.

The breakfast for the first-class passengers was now being carried in by the stewards from the cook-room to the cuddy, and all the children (even those who had eaten well of the cold sago and arrowroot) looked with longing eyes at the hot rolls and savoury meats, and red and yellow preserves, which were about to be served up for their papas and mammas. Poor little Sybil especially thought how very good they looked and smelt, and Dolph and George clapped their hands, and said their mamma was sure to bring some out in her pocket for them.

When the breakfast for the big people was ready, the little people were all ordered to go away from the saloon door and stay on the poop or upper deck until it was finished -- where Mrs Barlow's boys amused themselves by poking the poor fowls in the coops with bits of stick, and making them move about continually from one end of their narrow cage to the other; and little Sybil lay with her head in the ayah's lap, talking with her in a low voice about Madras and all she used to do there.

Presently Mrs Barlow came panting up the companion-ladder. She was always a red-faced lady, but her face looked redder than ever with the exertions she had made in eating and coming up-stairs, and as she appeared on deck she was wiping her mouth with her pocket-handkerchief. When Sybil saw Mrs Barlow coming, she sat upright waiting to be spoken to, for she had never seen her whilst she was sea-sick; but the lady hardly seemed to remember that she had been ill so long -- she only said, whilst passing to the ayah, "Oh! you've got that child up on deck again. So much the better. Now don't coddle her in that absurd fashion; make her run about; she will be all the better for a little exertion;" and then she continued, looking quite away from Sybil -- 

"Albert Edward, Dolph, Georgie, come here, my darlings; I've got something for you."

All the boys ran shouting to her at once, but Mrs Barlow told them to be quiet.

"Hush! we mustn't make a noise, or the old captain will hear us."

Then they dived their hands into her pockets, and brought up several rolls cut in half with jam between them, and some biscuits and pieces of toast, whilst Mrs Barlow shook her sides with laughing, because they were so rude they nearly tore the pocket from her dress.

"Now put them all away, my boys, as quick as you can, and mind no one sees you eating them, or poor mamma will get in a scrape again;" and then Mrs Barlow made some complaint about the sun being much too hot to remain on deck, kissed her baby, and went back into the cuddy. As soon as she had disappeared, the boys, quite regardless of her injunctions, pulled out their rolls and jam, and commenced to eat them, although several ladies and gentlemen were walking up and down the poop.

CHAPTER VIII.

"You not going to give little missy one piece of all those good things?" said Coolemah, reproachfully, as Albert Edward and Dolph and Georgie began to cram their mouths with roll and biscuit.

"Why should we? they aren't for her. Mamma bought them for us" replied Albert Edward as well as he was able.

"You a greedy bad boy!" said the ayah. "Master Dolph's a good boy; he will give a little piece of roll to poor missy."

"No, no, ayah; I.'m not hungry: I don't want it," cried little Sybil, shrinking from the idea of being begged for in vain.

But, as it happened, Dolph was really the best of all Mrs Barlow's boys, the least rough and selfish: besides, he had eaten so much at his own breakfast that he had more roll and biscuit than he could possibly consume; so a great fit of generosity came over him.

"Yes, I will; you shall take it!" he said, in answer to Sybil and the ayah. "Mamma brought it for us of course, but I can give it away if I choose and I do choose."

"There's a good gentleman -- be a great lord some day," said Coolemah, who called all English gentlemen "lords" in her own language.

"I've bitten the roll because I wanted the jam, but that doesn't signify, and you can have it if you like," continued Dolph, as he threw it into Sybil's lap.

"Much better give little missy biscuit," suggested Coolemah, as she held out the bitten roll to him again.

"I want that for myself," replied Dolph, as he marched away. Sybil was so weak, and the fresh air made her feel so hungry, that she did not disdain to accept even the bitten roll, and was lying in her old position quietly eating it when the captain of the ship passed by.

His name was Captain Oakes :he was an old man, with white hair and a hard weather-beaten face, and his quick eyes were over every part of the vessel at once. Georgie Barlow was sitting by the side of Sybil, also eating his roll, and in a moment the captain detected that it was not bread from the children's breakfast table. So he stopped short- before them.

"What have you got there?" he said, in a sharp rough voice.

Neither of the children knew to whom he was speaking, and so neither answered him, but Georgie pushed his piece of roll under the ayah's cloth, which lay upon the deck.

"Can't you hear what I say to you? Who gave you that bread?"

"What bread, master?" said Coolemah; "I got no bread."

"You know well enough what I mean. Who gave that boy roll from the cuddy table?"

"Haven't got any," exclaimed Georgie, as he spread out his empty hands.

The captain was getting angry: he was not used to being cheated on his own deck. He seized little Sybil by the arm, and took the piece of roll from her hand, and made her stand up before him.

"Now, little girl, you tell me the truth. Who gave you this piece of roll?"

"The boy called Dolph did, sir."

"And who gave it to the boy called Dolph?"

"His mamma."

"And what's her name?"

"Mrs Barlow."

Several ladies and gentlemen had gathered about the captain as he was speaking to Sybil, and one of them, Mrs Hawkins, who was a great friend of Mrs Barlow's, was making faces at Sybil to hold her tongue, only the child did not see them, and would not have understood them if she had.

"I don't think Mrs Barlow can have given it you, little girl," said Mrs Hawkins, with a frown. "Mrs Barlow is down in her cabin: perhaps the ayah did, or one of the stewards."

"How I giving anything?" demanded Coolemah, indignantly. "Do I steal for children to eat?"

"Mrs Barlow gave it to Dolph," persisted Sybil, quietly, "and Dolph gave it to me because I was so hungry."

"I don't believe it," said Mrs Hawkins. "You're a very mischievous little girl;" and at the same moment she twitched a piece of roll out of the hand of her own child, Anna, and threw it behind the hencoop.

"Oh! why do you throw my roll away, mamma? I wanted it," cried Anna, bursting into tears.

At that Captain Oakes turned round quickly, and looked Mrs Hawkins in the face.

"Did the ayah or the stewards give the cuddy bread to your child also, madam?" he said, significantly.

Just then Mrs Barlow came again on deck. She could not find something which she required in the cabin.

"Ayah," she said, peevishly, "where did you put my white wrappers? They are not in the box under my berth."

"Madam, I wish for a few words with you," said the old captain, in his stiff short way.

"With me, Captain Oakes?" she replied, looking with astonishment at Sybil, who was still trembling in the captain's grasp.

"Yes, madam, with you. I find that, against my expressed wishes, you have been feeding these children with articles off the first-class passengers' table. I have already had occasion to speak to the ladies on board upon this subject, and if it occurs again, I shall make the complaint public. The children have their own table spread for them, and to secrete food for them from ours, is worse than weak, madam; it is a theft. Don't let me hear of such a thing occurring again;" and putting Sybil away from him, Captain Oakes rose up, and, looking very angry, descended to the quarter-deck.

"Whoever told him?" exclaimed Mrs Barlow, who was quite frightened at the captain's manner. "O Georgie! you naughty boy, I told you so particularly not to let him see you eat your roll. Now mamma will never be able to bring you anything nice again."

"I didn't tell him" said Georgie, stoutly.

"Oh no, indeed, Mrs Barlow; it was none of your dear children," said Mrs Hawkins, quickly. "It was that little Ransford. I did all I could to keep her quiet, but she seemed quite determined to get us in a scrape."

"Sybil Ransford! why what does she know about it? I have given her nothing."

"But Dolph did," interposed Georgie; "he gave her the roll."

"And so she must needs tell the captain; that's gratitude!" exclaimed Mrs Barlow, angrily, as she turned her eyes on Sybil.

The child had crept back to the ayah's side, and was leaning her head timidly against her shoulder for protection.

"Don't try to hide yourself behind the ayah," continued Mrs Barlow, as she pulled her forward. "It's all very fine to go and play a nasty ill-natured trick, and then try to hide away from the consequences. What did you mean by telling Captain Oakes that I had given you the roll? You know very well I never gave it you, you little story-teller."

Sybil stood silent and trembling; she had never been spoken to in that way in her life before.

"Answer me at once; I will not have you sulky when I speak to you. Why did you tell the captain I gave you the bread?"

"I didn't tell him," faltered the child.

"Oh! what a dreadful story!" exclaimed the ladies who were standing by; "why, we heard you say so."

"Don't try to deceive me," said Mrs Barlow, as she gave Sybil a slight shake, "or I shall have to whip you. I always whip children who tell stories."

"I didn't tell him," reiterated Sybil; "I said Dolph gave it me."

"Missy quite right; that just what Missy saying," put in Coolemah, anxiously.

"Ayah! hold your tongue; I am not speaking to you. And what else did you say, Sybil?"

"I said you gave it to Dolph."

"And how dared you say so, you tiresome good-for-nothing child?"

"He asked me," replied Sybil.

"And you were evidently quite ready to tell him," rejoined Mrs Barlow, in a tone of vexation, "whether it was true or not."

"I saw you give it to Dolph," said the child, simply; but almost before the words were out of her mouth, Mrs Barlow had turned round and boxed her ears. With a shriek that was more fear and surprise than pain, Sybil rushed back to the ayah's embrace.

"I'm sure I hardly knew whether I ought to have done it!" said Mrs Barlow, apologetically, to the ladies who were standing round, "but I really couldn't help it. I felt as though I could not keep my fingers off her -- such impertinence in a child!"

"Oh! it serves her right; she will know better than to speak so to you another time. These motherless children are always so dreadfully spoilt," said the ladies in answer to her remark; for most of them had children on board, and they were all angry to think that, after what the captain had said, they should never be able to keep any nice things from breakfast or dessert for them again.

"Come here, Anna," said Mrs Hawkins to her daughter. "Look at that naughty little girl, crying with her head in the ayah's lap. She has been repeating a lot of stories to the captain; we can never trust her with anything again."

"Tell-tale Tit,
Your tongue shall be slit,
And all the puppy dogs in the town
Shall have a little bit,"

sung Anna, as she danced round about Sybil and the ayah. And then Albert Edward and the other boys joined company, and they all held hands and danced round her singing "Tell-tale Tit," whilst their mammas stood looking on from the opposite side of the ship and laughing.

"Never mind, missy!" whispered the ayah as she put her black hand on Sybil's long fair hair and stroked it lovingly.

"O ayah! ayah!" sobbed the child under her breath; "I wish I was with papa -- my own, own papa! Nobody loves me as he used to do; nobody wants me here. O papa! papa!"

CHAPTER IX.

The consequence of this disturbance was to make the poor timid little girl cling more closely to the ayah than before. She became frightened of Mrs Barlow and Mrs Hawkins and their boys and girls, for they scarcely ever saw her without reminding her of that first uncomfortable day, and asking what else she had found to tell the captain about, or begging each other to be silent, because everything they said was sure to be repeated. So that little Sybil grew more and more lonely, and followed Coolemah about from the deck to the cabin, and the cabin to the deck, as though she had been her shadow, or were afraid to lose sight of her for a moment. And even when night came, and it was time to undress Master Leopold Alfred, and put him to bed, Sybil would slip into the cabin like a little ghost, and sit down on a box opposite the ayah, and watch her proceedings with a pale, anxious face, into which even the baby's laughing and crowing and funny ways could not bring a smile. Yet Sybil loved the baby. He was so sweet, and gentle, and merry. He never frowned or looked crossly at her, but put his soft fat hands on hers, and his wet lips upon her cheek, in a manner that made her think about her dead mamma, and the kisses she would have given her, if she had not gone away and left her all alone. And though his kisses often made her cry, Sybil loved to feel them, and in general returned them most heartily.

But one night in particular she sat and watched him splashing in his bath without a word, but with her eyes fixed, as though she were thinking or dreaming of something far away.

"Missy, cheer up," said Coolemah, presently, as she saw a tear steal down Sybil's cheek; "mustn't think about missus and naughty boys any more -- no good thinking." For Albert Edward had complained to his mamma again that afternoon of some trifling fault on Sybil's part, and Mrs Barlow had been very angry with her.

"O ayah! I have so much trouble," sighed the child.

"Everybody got trouble, missy. I only poor black woman, but I got trouble -- left three poor little children in Madras -- perhaps they fall sick or die before I get back -- I often thinking so -- that's trouble!"

"But I have no one to think about, ayah; my papa and mamma have gone away and left me all alone. I have no friends," said Sybil, solemnly.

"Missy not got friends on board ship; what matter? plenty friends in England. Grandmamma, grandpapa, uncles, aunts -- missy have plenty love in England."

"I don't know," said the little girl, shaking her head. "I've never seen them -- I don't even know what a grandmamma is like. Have you got a grandmamma, ayah?"

But as Coolemah was studying how to answer this important question, Mrs Barlow popped her head into the cabin.

"What is all this chattering about, ayah?" she demanded; "why has baby not gone to sleep?"

"Just going, missus," replied the ayah, as she began to rock the baby backward and forward in her arms.

"Why, what have you got that child here for?" continued the lady, as she caught sight of Sybil; "no wonder the baby is wakeful. Why can't she look after herself, like the rest of the children on deck?"

"Missy not very strong -- little sick still," said Coolemah, apologetically.

"Not strong! what absurd nonsense! You put the idea into her head. Come, child, get up and go out on deck, and run about. If you're not strong, the more fresh air you get the better. And you are never to come in the cabin whilst nurse is busy with the baby; you only hinder her, and prevent her doing her work. Do you understand?"

"Yes, ma'am," said Sybil, in a low voice; and so she left the cabin, and wandered away by herself again.

She reached the quarter-deck, and there she stayed. The other children were all having a noisy game of romps upon the poop, but she shrunk from the idea of asking them to let her join them, or of intruding herself amongst the ladies and gentlemen, who were sitting in groups and talking together. So she turned her eyes to the other side of the ship, where the sailors, and the soldiers who were going home to England in the Lady Gower, were sitting or lying smoking their pipes about a place called the forecastle.

It was not a place where the ladies and gentlemen in the ship ever went, but the men all looked very merry and happy there. Some were reading, and some were busy at backgammon and cards; and one sailor was playing the fiddle, whilst another, who held a large tabby cat upon his knee, sung a song. They had all finished their work for the day, and, as it was a bright, calm evening, and the ship did not require much attention, they were spending their time as they chose.

Little by little, the lonely child drew nearer to them; the merry tune attracted her attention, and as the men who were playing at cards never even looked up at her as she crept past them, she gained courage to go on until she had reached the forecastle. Then the sailor who was nursing the cat turned his head round, and saw a pale little face and two wistful grey eyes gazing at the animal he held in his arms. He was a kind sailor; he had a wife and several children of his own at home -- great, strong, rosy children; and Sybil looked to him as though she were very weak indeed.

"Why! my little lady-bird," he said, "have you come all this way to see pussy? Would you like to stroke her? she won't hurt you."

Sybil didn't answer him, she was too shy; but she stooped down and drew her hand several times up and down the cat's furry back.

"Isn't she a bonny creature?" said the sailor presently. "She's a great traveller, is pussy: she's been three times out to India and back already, and that's more than you've done, little lady, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Sybil, softly; and then she added, "I like pussies; they're so gentle."

"Come along with me, then," said the sailor, "and I'll show you something prettier and more uncommon than a pussy. What! you're not afraid of old Jack Harris, are you?" for Sybil was hanging back.

"Not if you think I may go," she whispered.

"Oh! you think mamma won't like it, that's it, eh?"

"Oh no! oh no!" rejoined the child, with a quick shudder. "I haven't got a mamma, nor a papa either," she added, in a lower key.

"Poor lamb!" said old Jack Harris compassionately. But the next minute he had caught Sybil up in his arms, and was carrying her across the deck.

"Now I'm going to show you something that you'll like," he went on, in a brisk lively tone; "and if there's to be any blame, I'll take it on myself. Ah! you're looking at the big boat up there. That's the longboat. Now who do you think lives in the longboat?"

"How can I tell?" said Sybil.

"I'll lift you up to see;" and when she was lifted up Sybil was full of astonishment.

"Oh! a cow! a dear pretty dappled cow! But how did she get up there, and does she like it? Won't those pieces of wood hurt her soft back?"

"I don't know if she likes it, little one; but she'll have to stay there whether or no."

"Not all the voyage, Mr Sailor, -- not till we get to England?"

"Yes, till we get to England, my pretty, and be none the worse for it after all. I've known cows lie under the thwarts, as she is doing now, the whole time, and, as soon as they were unshipped at the London Docks, to scamper off with their tails in the air as though they had never lost sight of a meadow. And Betsy is a good quiet creature: she'll lie there contented enough, and, may be, give you milk the whole way home, which she couldn't do if she kicked about and made a fuss. She's a lesson, my dear: she makes the best of things."

"Poor Betsy I" said little Sybil, as she stroked the cow's back.

"But it wasn't Betsy we came to see," continued the sailor; "so we'll say good-bye to her; I'm going to show you Jenny."

"Is Jenny another cow, Mr Sailor?"

"Oh, no! Jenny is a lady who gets her own way entirely. She wouldn't like to be in Betsy's place -- she can't keep still a minute. There she is, my pretty; not much like a cow, is she?"

The sailor had put Sybil down as he spoke, and directed her attention to an iron cage which stood upon the deck.

In it was an animal such as she had never seen before. It was about the size of a cat, and had beautiful soft brown hair all over its body, and a long thick tail which it curled over its back like a squirrel, and the funniest face possible, with a very sharp nose and round eyes, and little pointed ears.

"What a curious animal!" said Sybil. "It seems to have no feet, only four hands, like monkeys' hands, with fingers for toes, and claws for nails. And how it keeps on swinging itself up to that bar across the top of its cage! I never saw anything like it before, Mr Sailor: I feel a little afraid."

"Afraid, my pretty! Why, Jenny wouldn't hurt a fly; she is the gentlest creature possible. Come here, Jenny," he continued, as he unfastened the door of the cage and took the curious animal upon his arm. "Come and give old Jack Harris a kiss." The animal immediately ran up the sailor's arm to his shoulder, and put her sharp nose against his rough cheek. "That's it, my lass," he said, laughing; "and now you must give little missy a kiss as well."

Sybil's pale face was glowing with excitement.

"You are sure she won't bite me, Mr Sailor."

"Sure she won't bite you!" echoed the old man. "Why, do you think I'd risk a hair of your head, my poor motherless lamb? No, no! you may trust my word. Jenny will kiss you as prettily as she did me."

He held the animal to her face as he spoke, and Sybil felt the little cold nose touch her cheek.

"Oh! what a nice Jenny! what a good little beast!" she exclaimed. "What is her real name, Mr Sailor? how do you call her?"

"Why, she is a mongoose, my dear. Did you never hear people talk of them in India? they're very common there. Jenny came from Madagascar, but she's lived so long on board the Lady Gower, that I expect she's forgotten all about her native home."

"And does she always live in this iron cage?"

"Oh no! she only sleeps there. I had put her to bed before you came to see her. All day long she stops in the cook's galley, or climbs up and down the rigging."

"And what does she eat?"

"Plantains or fruit of any kind: she is not particular; are you, Jenny?" said the sailor, as he squeezed the mongoose up against his breast.

But here Coolemah's voice was heard calling Sybil to come to bed.

"I must go, Mr Sailor, or Mrs Barlow might be angry. Good-bye, Jenny. I shall come and see you again perhaps some day. Good-night, Mr Sailor."

The tender innocent lips were held up to the old man's face, and, red with delight, Jack Harris stooped down and kissed little Sybil on the cheek.

"Good-night, my pretty flower," he said; "goodnight, my little lady. Come and see Jenny and old Jack Harris as often as you can; they're both at your service whenever you choose to call them."

CHAPTER X.

You may be sure that Sybil did not forget old Jack Harris and the pretty curious mongoose. She talked about them all the time that Coolemah was undressing her that evening, and they were the first things that came into her head when she awoke the following morning.

"O ayah! do make haste to wash my face and hands and fasten up my frock. I feel in such a hurry to say good-morning to old Jack and Jenny."

"Who's Jenny?" demanded Dolph, who slept in the same cabin as Sybil and the ayah; "is she a girl or a dog?"

"I shan't tell you; you must guess," said Sybil, gleefully; for, child-like, she often forgot how rude and rough the boys were with her, and tried to have a little fun with them. "She's not a girl, and she's not a dog -- so there! Now what can she be?"

"A parrot, of course," replied Dolph.

"No! not a parrot -- nothing like a parrot," exclaimed the child, who was getting quite excited over his look of curiosity. "Not a girl, nor a dog, nor a parrot, nor a cat; but something that you've never seen before."

"I don't believe it," said Dolph, rudely, "because I've seen everything in the world."

Sybil's face fell.

"Not everything, Dolph -- not a whale."

"Yes, heaps of them, in the sea at Madras."

"O Master Dolph! you wicked boy telling such stories!" cried Coolemah.

"Well, if they weren't whales, they were sharks; it's all the same thing."

"But this isn't a shark, Dolph; it's something that lives on land and runs about."

"A horse."

"No, no! -- not so big."

"A monkey."

"No, no!" and here Sybil clapped her hands with delight at his difficulty.

"Well, then, you must tell me what it is."

"No; you must guess."

"I can't guess -- I shan't guess; tell me the name at once."

"No, I won't; you must ask Jack Harris."

"And who's Jack Harris?"

"Go and find out."

The poor little girl's cheeks were crimson with excitement, and she was looking merrier than Coolemah had ever seen her look before, when her face suddenly fell, and an exclamation of pain burst from her lips. Dolph had flown at her and violently pinched her arm.

"O Dolph! why did you do that? you have hurt me so," she said, as the tears rose to her eyes and she commenced to rub the arm he had attacked.

"You naughty boy!" exclaimed Coolemah, "how dare you touching missy? You very bad boy; I wish your mamma whip you."

"Why doesn't she tell me who Jenny is then?" he replied, angrily.

"Missy shan't tell you anything," said Coolemah, as she opened the cabin door and put Sybil outside.

"Now missy run away and enjoy herself, and don't come back till breakfast bell rings."

Sybil did not wait to be told a second time; she was only too glad to run away from the naughty boy, whom she heard kicking violently at the cabin door as she made her way through the cuddy.

Jenny was in her cage, on the same spot where Sybil had left her the night before, but Jack Harris was nowhere to be seen. The fact is, he was busy below decks, doing his own proper work, but Sybil did not know that. She only saw that he was not amongst the men who surrounded her, and so she sat down by the side of Jenny's cage, and contented herself with putting her fingers between the iron bars and scratching her brown head; a proceeding which Jenny seemed very much to enjoy.

"And what's your name, little girl?" said a nice, kind, deep voice near her.

Sybil looked up, and saw a great tall soldier, so tall he seemed nearly to reach up to the long boat beneath which she sat, with a very short red jacket on, and a little round cap on his head no bigger than a saucer.

"Sybil Ransford, sir," she answered, in her low frightened voice, for Sybil had grown very much afraid of strangers since she had come on board ship.

"Ransford! Ah! you belong to the quarter-deck passengers, I suppose?"

"Yes, sir."

"And what makes you come on the forecastle?"

"I came to see Jenny. Jack Harris said I might."

"But don't you care to play with the other children?"

Sybil shook her head.

"I don't know them, and they don't know me -- they don't like me; I feel better here."

"Have you no friends on board ship?"

"No, sir; I have no friends at all."

The mournful tone went to the soldier's heart.

"Why, now that's nonsense," he said, cheerily; "weren't you talking of one just now? Who is Jack Harris?"

"Oh! yes; he's a friend -- he showed me Jenny. Do you know, sir, where Jack Harris is? I want to see him."

"No, I don't, little one; but I daresay he's busy somewhere; you're sure to see him by and by. And so Jack Harris is a friend. And mayn't I be another friend?"

Sybil glanced up and met the look of a pair of kind blue eyes.

"Oh! yes, sir. I think I should very much like to have you for a friend too, if you will tell me your name," she added, hesitatingly.

"My name is Corporal Brown, and you'll always find me on this bench after dinner-time. I come here to smoke my pipe and read 'Robinson Crusoe.' Did you ever read 'Robinson Crusoe,' little one?"

"No, sir; I can't read. I never learned."

"Ah! well, you shall look at the pictures and I'll read you the story. It's such a jolly story; all about a man who lived by himself and had no friends."

"Lived by himself, and had no friends!" repeated Sybil. "I should like to hear that story, sir; it must be very interesting. And I love pictures very much."

"Then you shall come and look at mine, my dear, as often as you like. Am I right in thinking you're the daughter of Captain Ransford, who was taken off so suddenly at Madras the other day?"

"Oh! yes; did you know my papa?" exclaimed the child, earnestly.

"Know him! Well, I've seen him often enough, my dear. As fine a gentleman and officer as ever stepped."

"O papa! papa!"

The old wound was opened again, and the child's heart was full to overflowing. But here the breakfast bell rang out loud and clear.

"I must go," cried little Sybil, smiling through her tears; "if I don't go quickly, I give ayah so much trouble. But I shall come again, Corporal, and see the pretty pictures in your book, and talk to you about -- you know -- you know -- Goodbye! Give my love to old Jack Harris, and tell him I have two friends now, for he will be glad to hear it" And the little figure, clothed in its deep mourning, fluttered away along the quarter-deck, and with a wave of the hand disappeared into the cuddy door.

Sybil ate a good breakfast that morning, and as soon as it was finished she ran out again to see her new friends, and just beyond the capstern she met old Jack Harris with Jenny on his shoulder.

"Ah! here you are, my bonny little lady," he said. "I was just loitering about to catch a glimpse of you before I went below again. Here's Jenny, all ready to be petted for the day. Take her in your arms, and do what you like with her; for if she makes her escape, she is sure to find her way back to her old cage." So saying, he put the mongoose in Sybil's arms, and left her to go back to his work.

Sybil was delighted with the charge; she felt so important with Jenny in her arms, and so proud, not to feel a bit afraid of her. She sat for some time where the sailor had left her; and then, as the voices of the other children reached her from the poop, a strong desire came over her to show them her new plaything; and lifting Jenny very carefully, she carried her up the companion-ladder. As soon as she had reached the top, they all clustered around her.

"What have you got?" "Where did you get it?" "What a funny creature!" "Give it to me!" they exclaimed from all sides.

"No, no!" replied Sybil, as she folded her arms and the skirt of her frock about Jenny's body. "I have brought her up to show you, but you mustn't touch her, because Jack Harris lent her to me for my own self."

"What nonsense! who's Jack Harris?" said Albert Edward, roughly.

"He is a friend of mine -- a very kind old man," said Sybil. "Jenny belongs to him, and he says I am to keep her and pet her all day if I like. Isn't she pretty, Dolph?"

"Oh! so that's Jenny, is it, that you wouldn't tell me about, you nasty ill-natured thing!" cried Dolph.

"Albert Edward, help me to take it from her: she don't deserve to have it, the tell-tale tit."

"We'll all help you!" said the children with one voice.

Sybil set her back against the hencoop, and fought hard to retain what she considered her property.

"You are unkind -- you are naughty," she said, panting for breath as they pressed about her; "you have no right to take Jenny from me: I will tell Coolemah of you!"

"Pooh! who cares for Coolemah?" replied Dolph, scornfully. "If she doesn't behave herself, mamma won't pay her her wages: I heard mamma say so. Come now, you just give up that Jenny, will you?"

"I won't," said little Sybil, determinately, as she clasped the mongoose tighter in her arms, "I will show her to you if you like, but she was given to me, and you have no right to take her from me in this way."

It so happened that the grown-up people's breakfast was just being carried into the cuddy, and the ladies and gentlemen who were waiting for it were standing about the quarter-deck, just under the poop, where the naughty children were fighting to take Jenny away from poor Sybil's care.

"No right!" echoed Albert Edward; "of course we have a right if we choose. Come now, give her up at once, do you hear?"

"I do hear, but I won't give her up," replied Sybil Ransford.

At these words Albert Edward made a dash at her, and seized the mongoose in his hands.

Now Jenny was a very good-natured little mongoose when she was treated justly, but when she felt Albert Edward's fingers pinching her, she believed him, and justly, to be an enemy, and not a friend, and so she turned round and bit him in the hand with her sharp little teeth.

He gave a yell of pain, and tossing her quickly away from him, she went right over the hencoop, and fell on the neck of a lady who was standing on the quarter-deck.

That lady was Mrs Hawkins, Anna's mamma. Mrs Hawkins was not a brave lady by nature, added to which, she had a very fat soft neck; and when I tell you that she had never seen such an animal as a mongoose before, and that Jenny, finding she was falling, stuck her sharp claws right into her flesh to save herself, you may suppose that Mrs Hawkins was very much frightened.

She screamed dreadfully: all the other ladies and gentleman ran to her assistance, and then poor Jenny fell on the deck, and was chased back to her iron cage. Mrs Hawkins went into hysterics, and everybody began asking how such a thing could have happened.

CHAPTER XI.

"What a horrid looking creature! what can it be?" exclaimed one of the ladies.

"It was a huge rat; I felt its claws sticking into my neck. Oh! these dreadful ships! I will never enter one again," sobbed Mrs Hawkins.

"Calm yourself, dear Mrs Hawkins," said Mrs Barlow; "it was not a rat, it was a monkey; I saw it myself. It is a shame such nasty mischievous creatures should be allowed on board a passenger vessel."

"It is not a monkey, it is a mongoose; and I am sure it did not mean to hurt any one," said little Sybil, who, with the other children, was watching this scene from the poop.

"And how do you know it is not a monkey, or that it did not intend to hurt Mrs Hawkins?" replied Mrs Barlow, as she glanced up towards Sybil. "Did you see it jump off the hencoop?"

"It didn't jump -- she threw it," cried Albert Edward, maliciously.

"Oh! what an awful story!" interposed Sybil; but she grew very red, for she guessed her word would not be taken.

"She did, mamma; it's true," exclaimed Dolph, excitedly. "She's a nasty ill-natured spiteful thing; and Jack Harris sent her the mongoose; and because we just wanted to look at it, she took it and threw it right over the hencoop on Mrs Hawkins' head, and we all saw her; didn't we, Anna?"

"Yes, that we did; and I hate her," replied Miss Hawkins, emphatically.

"Sybil Ransford again! is it possible?" said Mrs Barlow. "Well, I think I never heard of such a piece of spite on the part of a child in all my life."

"I didn't do it; it was Albert Edward who threw her himself, and I'm sure he has hurt her," cried Sybil, resolving into tears.

"Hold your tongue, miss, directly! How dare you try to lay the blame upon another person?" said Mrs Barlow. "Dear Mrs Hawkins, what can I say to you in apology for such unheard-of conduct?"

Mrs Hawkins, who had recovered herself very quickly when she found that every one's attention was turned to the group of children, replied in a tone of great offence, "I am sure I cannot say, Mrs Barlow; for my part, I should consider no apology sufficient. I cannot help perceiving that this child Ransford's malice arises from the fact of my having been the one to inform you of her deceitful conduct with regard to the captain; and if you can permit the children under your charge to insult your friends in order to revenge themselves without administering due punishment, I shall take it as a personal affront between you and me;" and so saying, Mrs Hawkins rose from her seat, and was about to re-enter the cabin.

"But, dear Mrs Hawkins, I have no such intention," said Mrs Barlow, detaining her. "Of course she shall be punished, and most severely, which is no more than she deserves."

"No more indeed," exclaimed one of the bystanders.

"I'd whip her within an inch of her life," said another.

"The wicked spiteful little animal!" put in a third.

Mrs Hawkins smiled to express her approbation of their sentiments as she disappeared; and all the while Sybil's weak voice, made weaker by her tears, was interrupting them with vehement protestations of innocence, drowned by the laughter and contradiction of her companions.

There was one person who had been standing by all the time and listening attentively to what went on. He was a tall thin man, dressed in black, with a face that was very grave but very kind; he was, in fact, the same gentleman who had once found his way into little Sybil's cabin, and given her a glass of water; and the more he listened the graver he became.

"Would it not be as well, madam, to ascertain certainly who is in the wrong before you administer the punishment?" he said, addressing Mrs Barlow.

The lady started, and stared the gentleman full in the face; he had never spoken to her before. She did not even know his name; and she thought he was very impertinent in presuming to address her.

Mr Williams (for that was the gentleman's name) guessed what she was thinking. .

"Forgive my speaking to you," he said, gently; "but I love children so much that the subject cannot but be interesting to me."

"Much obliged, I'm sure," replied Mrs Barlow, turning her back upon him; "but I believe I can manage my own children without help."

"It is easier to manage .our own children than to do justice to the children of others, madam," said Mr Williams, undaunted; "and our natures are so prone to evil, that the tongues of little ones, however well brought up, are not always to be depended on."

"What impertinence!" said Mrs Barlow in a low voice to her friends, turning very red.

"Take no notice of it, dear Mrs Barlow."

"Oh! I shall not, you may depend upon that. Sybil Ransford," she continued aloud, turning to the children, "and you, my darlings, come down here at once."

And sitting down with her back towards Mr Williams, Mrs Barlow prepared to receive the culprit; yet the gentleman never altered his position, but continued to look on with grave, sad eyes.

"I did not throw Jenny upon Mrs Hawkins' back, indeed I did not," were the first words with which little Sybil confronted her accuser.

"Hold your tongue, miss! Don't presume to speak to me until I give you leave. Albert Edward, you are the eldest; tell me exactly how it all happened. Now be very careful, my dear boy, to say nothing but the truth."

"Oh! I'm sure there's no need to caution Albert Edward on that subject, Mrs Barlow," said a young lady who leant over her chair.

"I hope not," replied the proud mother; "but boys will be boys, you know. Now, dear Albert, remember, nothing but the truth."

"Of course not, mamma. Well, she came up on the poop with Jenny in her arms" --

"Stop, my son. Who is Jenny?"

"Why, the mongoose, of course."

"Don't say of course, my darling. I wish you always to be very correct in your manner of speaking."

"Oh! how particular she is with her dear children," exclaimed the young lady who leaned over her chair to another young lady who stood beside her. But the grave gentleman neither smiled nor moved.

"Well," resumed Albert Edward, "she came up on the poop with the mongoose in her arms, and she said Jack Harris had given it her, and we wanted to see it, of course, but she wouldn't let us, though we asked her as politely as possible, mamma, and she said she'd fling it overboard sooner than we should touch it."

"I didn't! I didn't!" interposed Sybil, with a face of crimson.

"Be quiet, miss, at once; you have been a very wicked little girl. Don't make it worse by telling stories," said Mrs Barlow.

The gentleman made a step forward as though he would have spoken, but restrained himself.

"You did -- you know you did," resumed Albert Edward, defiantly; "and then you saw Mrs Hawkins coming, and you said you'd fling Jenny on her neck, and we begged you not, but you did fling it, and then" --

"Stop!" said a loud voice behind Albert Edward's back.

Albert Edward stopped, his mamma stopped, indeed everybody stopped whatever they were doing and looked up at Mr Williams, who had left his place, and stood close beside them,

"Stop, child!" he repeated, in a voice that was not so much angry as sad; "and do not defile your young mouth with any more falsehoods. I was standing here all the time; I saw the struggle on the poop; I saw you yourself wrest the mongoose from this little girl's arms, and fling it over the hencoop on to the quarter-deck. Every word you have told your mother is a lie. Child! do you know that there is a God above you, looking down and listening to every word you say?"

The gentleman had spoken so quickly and so determinately, that no one had had time to answer him. The young ladies were standing by with open mouths; the children all looked thoroughly frightened; only Mrs Barlow, very red and very angry, found breath to say -- 

"Really, this interruption is most extraordinary -- most unprecedented!"

"I think it would have been more extraordinary, madam," said Mr Williams, "if I could have stood by, and seen the innocent punished for the guilty, in silence;" and so saying, with a respectful bow he turned away.

"It's very strange. I hardly know what to believe," said Mrs Barlow, in a flurried manner, as he disappeared.

"It isn't lies," said Albert Edward, blubbering; "it's all true, mamma -- Dolph knows it is."

But Dolph was too wise to second the assertion.

"Whether it's true or not, she's always unkind and disagreeable," he murmured, going on another tack.

"That she most certainly is," rejoined his mother, seizing on an opportunity to change the subject. "If you had been like other children" (turning to Sybil), "and let them see the mongoose, none of this worry would have occurred. And what is this I hear of old Jack Harris? Pray, who is old Jack Harris?"

"He is a kind old man -- he is a friend of mine," replied Sybil, in a subdued voice.

"A friend of yours! what do you mean? Where did you meet him?"

"He lives at that end," said the child, pointing with her little finger towards the forecastle; "and so does Corporal Brown and Betsy -- and Jenny lives with them too. They are all very kind to me," with a deep sigh, "and so I call them friends."

"Call them friends! -- go amongst the men in the forecastle!" exclaimed Mrs Barlow, with uplifted hands. "Good gracious, Miss Jones! did you ever hear of such a thing?"

"I never did," said Miss Jones, emphatically.

"Going amongst people of that sort, and then coming back to eat and play and sleep with my children! Why, the child can have none of the feelings of a lady. Actually preferring to talk with Jack Harrises and Corporal Browns, and their Betsies and Jennies, when there are girls like Anna Hawkins ready to be her companions! It is incomprehensible to me. And fancy the risk she runs of bringing back some dreadful infection with her. Why, my dear, they have all kind of things in the forecastle, and the hospital is at that end of the ship. The very idea makes me shudder; and as for dear Mrs Hawkins, I am sure she would never have another happy moment if she heard of it. The men ought to be whipped who let the child remain there."

"Oh! no, no!" cried little Sybil, her fears for Jack Harris and Corporal Brown overcoming her timidity. "Indeed they are very good and kind. Jack Harris says I may go and see Jenny whenever I like, and Corporal Brown is going to read me the story of 'Robinson Crusoe' whilst I look at the pictures."

"Indeed, you will do nothing of the sort," replied Mrs Barlow, angrily. "You will never go near the forecastle, or speak to any of those common men again, or I will take a stick and beat you."

"Not speak to old Jack Harris when he wishes me good morning?" said Sybil, with startling earnestness.

"Certainly not. If the fellow knew his place, he would not presume to speak to you."

"And not look at the pictures in 'Robinson Crusoe,' or hear Corporal Brown tell me the story about him? For he lived all alone and had no friends," continued Sybil, entreatingly.

"Most decidedly not. You shall neither speak to nor of such people whilst you are under my charge. I cannot make you feel like a lady perhaps, but I can make you behave as such;" and Mrs Barlow got up from her chair and shook out her skirts.

"Oh! please, ma'am," pleaded Sybil, made bold by desperation, as she grasped the folds of her dress, "please let me speak to them sometimes. They will think it so rude of me, and so unkind; and I like it because -- because" --

"Because what?" demanded Mrs Barlow, as she bent her unsympathising face upon the child.

"Because I -- sometimes -- I -- feel so lonely," she gasped.

Mrs Barlow shook Sybil's grasp off her dress impatiently and roughly.

"You impertinent little animal!" she said, indignantly, "to dare to talk of being lonely when you have Albert Edward and Dolph and all my dear boys to keep you company! I never would have taken charge of you if I had known you would have been half the trouble that you have. Let go my dress at once, and understand plainly, that if you give me any more bother, I shall shut you up in the cabin till we get to England. And I shall tell your grandmamma, the first time I see her, that you are the naughtiest and most tiresome child I ever set eyes on. Come, Dolph, my darling; go with Albert Edward to the cabin, and get some jam and biscuits, and mind you are dear good quiet children till breakfast is over. And as for you, miss, if I ever hear so much as your voice again, I'll tie your hands and legs together for the rest of the day."

As Mrs Barlow said this, she went into the cuddy, where the passengers' breakfast was now ready, pushing her boys before her, and with the two young ladies following close upon her heels.

The other children had run away long before to finish their game upon the poop, and little Sybil was left alone. She looked at the cuddy door for a moment, as though she half expected Mrs Barlow would return to give her one kind word or look; and then, as the clatter of knives and forks and all the noise of breakfast fell upon her ear, she turned very quietly away, and went away and sat down by herself upon a heap of sailcloth.

CHAPTER XII.

Sybil had no intention of crying when she sat down by herself on the sailcloth; indeed, she was quite determined not to cry. Her cheeks were flushed from her late excitement, and her head ached, and there was a strange lump in her throat; but she knew she had done nothing to cry for, and her papa had always called her a brave little girl, and told her that no one should cry unless they were naughty.

She could remember -- oh! so well, as she sat there with both her hands clasped round her knees, and the fresh sea-breeze blowing her long fair hair about her thin pale little face -- how proud she felt one day when she fell off her pony, and did not even make a wry face, and her papa picked her up again, and said she was "every inch a soldier's daughter." How quickly he had jumped off his own horse on that occasion, and how cheerfully he had joked with his little girl! And yet Sybil had seen that his hand trembled, and a gentleman who was riding with them said, "Why, Ransford, you look quite pale." And her papa had laughed, and said he considered it quite a compliment to be told so in Madras. Sybil had thought little of either circumstance at the time, for old ayah had cured the bruises, and her papa had said nothing more about it; but somehow she seemed to have grown older since she had come on board the Lady Gower, and to understand things that she had never understood before. And in looking back on this part of her life, a light seemed all at once to break in upon her mind, and she knew that the reason her papa had turned so pale and trembling was because of his great love for her -- the love which she should never hear or feel again.

As Sybil thought of it, her own little hands and lips began to tremble, but she bit her lips and clasped her hands tighter round her knees, and tried hard to be the brave girl which her papa had called her.

But she could not help the thinking -- that would not be squeezed back, nor pressed down, nor sent away with a stamp of her little foot; and as she gazed and thought, the busy scene before her seemed to fade away, and she could see a picture of her papa drawn upon the air -- not cold and still, as she had seen him last -- but with his sweet smile and merry blue eyes and golden hair; and behind him was old ayah, with her kind brown face and wrinkled skin and long gold earrings in her ears; -- old ayah far away in Madras, loving some other little child perhaps, whilst Sybil was on the sea alone with strangers: papa -- dear papa -- cold and dead and silent -- hidden away under the ground in Madras Cemetery, never again to open those kind blue eyes, never to feel his child's warm hand in his!

Oh! it was too cruel -- it was too bitter! As the sad little heart seemed to take in the cruelty and the bitterness, all the bravery broke down; the lump in her throat grew harder; the pictures of papa and ayah melted away, and there was nothing but a weary heartbroken little Sybil sobbing on a heap of sailcloth, with her face buried in her hands.

So, a few minutes after, Mr Williams found her.

He was not taking his breakfast with the other passengers in the cuddy, because he was not what is called a first-class passenger; that is to say, although he was as much a gentleman as any of them, he had not paid so much money for his passage. Mr Williams was a poor man, and he made himself poorer than he need have been, because he was so kind and good, that he spent almost all he had on those who were less rich than himself. He was a missionary. Years before he had left England, and all whom he loved there, and gone out to India for the sake of preaching God's Word to the natives, who had never heard of either God or heaven. In order to do this, he had been obliged to live in many hot and unhealthy places, where he had neither comforts nor conveniences. He had lost his wife and children; and now his own health was so shattered that the doctors had told him, if he wished to live, he must try change of air.

So at last Mr Williams had decided to take their advice, and was now on his way to the Cape of Good Hope, where he hoped to end his days, as he had begun them, in doing good to those around him.

He had not forgotten Sybil, for the first time he had seen her sad little face it had made a great impression on him; only, in consequence of his being a second-class passenger, he had not been thrown in her way since. He had watched the scene of that morning with great indignation, and was almost angry with himself for not having spoken more openly to Mrs Barlow on her injustice towards the poor little orphan under her charge, when he came upon the child of whom he was thinking, sobbing alone upon the sailcloth.

The sight raised all his sympathy, for Sybil was just about the size of his own little girl Julia, whom he had lost six months before; and he felt like a father towards her.

So Mr Williams also took a seat upon the sailcloth, and waited till Sybil's sobs were less violent. Then he said gently, "What distresses you, my child?"

At the sound of his voice Sybil raised her head. She had hardly looked at him during the discussion with Mrs Barlow, but now that he spoke in his own gentle tone, she recognised him at once.

"Oh, sir! I think I know you. Once you gave me a glass of water."

"Yes I did -- when you were so sick and weary, lying alone in the dark in the cabin; and now you seem sick and weary again, little one, and the world looks dark to you; can I do nothing this time?"

"Oh, sir!" Sybil could get no further,

"You have quarrelled with your friends, I know, and that makes you sad; but cheer up -- all will be right again in time."

"It is not that, sir; they are not my friends; I have no friends!"

"No friends!" echoed Mr Williams.

"No, sir, no friends -- at least Jack Harris and Corporal Brown would have been a sort of friends to me, only Mrs Barlow says I must never speak to them again, and old ayah is left behind in Madras, and -- and -- I think I told you" --

"What, my dear?"

"That I shall never, never, never see my poor papa and mamma again," exclaimed the child, in a fresh burst of grief.

"You will never see them again, Sybil! Who told you that?"

"I know it, sir. They are both dead; they have gone away and left me; they are in the churchyard at Madras."

"Yes; they have gone away and left you as you say, but don't you know where they have gone to?"

"They are in the churchyard at Madras, sir; they are both in the ground; they have left me."

Mr Williams was very much affected; for a minute he could not speak; but he took Sybil's hand and laid it between his own, and patted it gently. "Dear little child," he said, presently, "has no one told you about heaven?"

"About heaven, sir -- about the sky?"

"About that beautiful home above the sky, where all who love God go when they leave this earth, where your dear father and mother are living now, and waiting for you to join them, where God lives with all the holy angels."

"God, sir!" said little Sybil, raising two eyes of wonder to his face; "who is God?"

Mr Williams started. He had lived all his life amongst ignorant black people who had never heard of God, but he had seldom had such a question as the above put to him by a little white Christian child of nearly eight years old.

Perhaps the boys and girls who read this book will be as surprised as Mr Williams was.

But do you remember what I told you in the beginning of my story, when Sybil jumped into her bed at Madras without saying her prayers? She had never* had a mother to teach her about God and Jesus' Christ and heaven, and her father had thought her too young to be taught such things, and her old ayah was not capable of doing so. And since she had been on board ship, Mrs Barlow had never even inquired what she did or did not know. Occasionally, when listening to the conversation which went on around her, Sybil might hear some mention of holy things; but if she did, it fell on her ears without more meaning in it than a German or French conversation would have to those who do not understand the language; and therefore she was quite genuine in her inquiry, when she lifted her eyes to Mr Williams' face and said, "Who is God?"

"My poor child!" he answered, "is it possible you have never heard His name?"

"Oh! yes, sir; I often heard the gentlemen who came to see papa speak of Him, and generally when they were angry; but they never told me who He was or anything about Him."

"O Sybil! when people are angry is the very time when they should never dare to speak that holy name, for it is too great and awful;" and then Mr Williams raised his eyes towards the sky.

"God in heaven!" he murmured, "help me to show this little one the light of Thy truth!"

"Are you speaking to Him, sir?" asked Sybil, in a tone of awe.

"Yes, Sybil; I am speaking to Him, and He can hear and answer me!"

"Where is He, sir?" said the child, as she looked around her.

"He is everywhere, dear child! He is close at your side taking care of you every moment of the day, and He is in heaven, where the souls of your father and mother are happy with Him for ever."

"Papa! mamma! -- up there!" pointing with her finger to the sky. "Have they left the churchyard at Madras?"

"Their souls have, Sybil. Their souls, which spoke and lived and loved you, were never laid in the churchyard; they went to God directly, because Jesus died instead of them."

"Jesus!" said little Sybil, with wide-open eyes; "is that another? Oh, sir! I never heard all this before -- I cannot understand it!" and she shook her head.

"Listen to me, dear Sybil. You told me just now that you had no friends; that because your father and mother have gone to live in heaven (to live in heaven, remember, not to lie asleep under the mould in the churchyard), and you are going home to England with strangers who do not love you, and whom you do not love, therefore you are all alone."

"So I am, sir; excepting you are very kind to me just now."

"No, Sybil; you can never be alone; and that is what I want to try and teach you. You may feel lonely and desolate and unhappy sometimes, but you have one great, true, kind Friend, who is always beside you, though you do not know it."

"Oh, sir! what is His name? Do you mean yourself?"

"Dear child! how could I be always with you, however much I wished it? Your father and mother would have liked to stay with you, but God called them, and they were obliged to go; and even whilst they lived here, there were many hours when you were separated, and they could neither hear nor speak to you. Earthly friends are often unhappy -- they are obliged to part, or they misunderstand each other, or sickness and death comes to disturb their joy. But this Friend of yours, Sybil -- this great and true and faithful Friend -- will never part with you, nor misunderstand you, nor refuse to hear you. You can speak to Him whenever you are in trouble, and He will listen. He will be beside you in the dark, and in all dangers; He will make sickness bearable to you, and sorrow light, because of His own unchangeable love."

"Oh, sir! show Him to me, please, if you are sure that He will have me for His little friend."

"I have shown Him to you, my child. It is Jesus the Son of God, who waits to be a Friend to you."

"But I cannot see Him, sir."

"No, Sybil; but you can feel Him; and the more you think of Him, the closer He will come to you. Do you never say your prayers?"

"No, sir!" Then, after a pause, "Do you mean the same as when Dolph kneels down, and puts his hands together -- so?"

"Yes; when Dolph does that, he is speaking to Jesus, and telling Him all he wants."

"But, sir, he laughs; and sometimes Coolemah cannot make him put his hands together. Do you think he knows that Jesus is a friend?"

"Perhaps not, Sybil. Perhaps, if Dolph sees you pray to Jesus as though you believe that He is present, he will begin to believe it too."

"But need I talk out loud?" asked the child, timidly.

"Oh, no! you may whisper as softly as you like. Your Friend will always hear you."

"And will He speak to my papa for me too? Will He tell him that I never -- never" --

"You never what, my child?" demanded Mr Williams, tenderly.

"I never can forget, sir?"

"Yes, Sybil," said the missionary, after a moment's pause. "Jesus will do everything you ask. He will speak comfort to your father for you; and I quite believe that it is He who has sent me to speak comfort to your little heart to-day."

"Oh! how I wish that I could see Him!" sighed the child.

But here Coolemah, with the baby in her arms, came to interrupt the conversation.

"Missus sent me to fetch missy to go on poop with other children. Plenty nice breeze there. Missus wanting missy to run about and get strong."

"I don't want to go, ayah; I would rather stay here," said Sybil, languidly.

"Missus wanting missy to go. Missus send me," reiterated Coolemah, as she kept her ground.

"Jesus wants Sybil to go," whispered Mr Williams. "Jesus always wants His children to do as they are told."

"I will go," replied little Sybil, as she rose to her feet. "I will not forget, sir. O Coolemah! I have something to tell you," she continued, as she grasped the ayah's cloth. "Only fancy! I have found a Friend!"

And as Mr Williams watched her mounting to the upper-deck, a faint smile playing about her small pale face, as she repeated what he had told her to the ayah, he fancied that a ray of glory was already shining on the upturned features.

CHAPTER XIII.

It was sometime before Mr Williams saw Sybil Ransford again. He tried to see her; but, as I have said before, the first and second-class passengers are much divided on board ship; and if by chance he met her on the deck, Mrs Barlow was sure to call her away; for this lady had been very much offended by Mr Williams speaking to her without being introduced, and accusing Albert Edward of telling stories; and so she turned her back whenever she saw him coming, and told the children to look another way. But two or three weeks afterwards, as Mr Williams was arranging some matters in his cabin, he saw a little wistful face peeping in at the door.

"Why, my little girl," he said, kindly, "how did you find your way down here?"

For the cabin was what is called a steerage-cabin -- that is, it was on the lower-deck, and in order to reach it, one had to descend the steerage-ladder.

"I followed you, sir," replied Sybil, shyly. "I want to hear more about Him -- my Friend, you know -- for I have forgotten the name by which you called Him."

When Sybil said this, Mr Williams looked so glad. His grave face lighted up with pleasure.

"Now, is not that strange, little one," he said, as he came forward and took Sybil in his arms, "that though we forget Him every day of our lives, He never for one moment forgets us?"

Sybil liked to feel herself in Mr Williams' arms, for no one had ever carried her since her papa died, and there was a sense of security and peace about it which made her lay her head down on his shoulder with a little happy sigh.

"Do you ever forget Him, sir?" she whispered.

"Often, my darling -- I wish I didn't! And so you cannot even remember His name?"

"I never heard it before," replied the child, quickly.

"True, true, poor lamb! You are not to blame;" and from Mr Williams' kind heart there rose up a prayer for forgiveness for those who had been so thoughtless as to neglect to make the sweet name of Jesus as familiar to the child as was her own.

"What is my Friend's name, sir?"

"Jesus, dear Sybil."

"Oh, yes! of course. How stupid of me!" and a ray of pleasure lit up her face at the recollection. "I have been trying and trying to remember it, but it was too hard, and Coolemah could not help me. Jesus -- Jesus!" she went on, in a soft cooing tone. "I shall never forget it again."

"And now you shall sit down there," said Mr Williams, as he placed her safely in his berth, "and whilst I go on with my business we will talk together. And, first, what do you think of my cabin, Sybil?"

Sybil glanced round it. It was not a nice cabin, for there was no chest of drawers, nor swinging tray, nor lamp, as there was in Mrs Barlow's, and except two little pictures which were hung against the wall above the berth, everything looked very uncomfortable.

"I think it is an ugly cabin," she said, after her survey was ended.

Mr Williams smiled.

"You are quite right, dear; always tell the truth. It is a very ugly cabin, and a very uncomfortable one; but whenever I think so, I try to remember that I am only in it for a little while, and that it will soon b2 over. And when we have troubles in this world, Sybil, we should think the same: that we are only placed here for a little while, and that it will soon be over."

"But these are pretty," said Sybil, as she pointed to the little picture-frames which hung above the berth.

Mr Williams looked up at them and sighed.

"Yes; they are my comforts. When I feel sad, I go and look at those two little pictures, and they make me smile again. Can you guess why, Sybil?"

"No, sir! I have hardly looked at them."

"Look at them now, and tell me what you see."

So Sybil knelt on her knees upon the berth and examined the pictures.

"Oh, sir! this is very strange. I never saw anything like this before. A Man hanging on a great cross with His arms stretched out, and sharp things all round His head, and a letter nailed above Him, and people crying underneath. Why do they leave Him there? What has He done? He looks so sad, and His eyes are closed, but if they were open I am sure they would be good and kind. Oh, sir! who is this Man?"

"He is your Friend, Sybil," said Mr Williams, solemnly.

"My Friend, sir! And did they do that to Him? But why?"

This was the question that Mr Williams had longed to hear the child ask; and sitting down upon the box in which he had been arranging his clothes, he told her the beautiful story of our Saviour's birth and death.

Sybil listened with eager attention. She loved to hear stories, especially true ones, and when Mr Williams told her that, whether she lived a long life or a short life, she must some day see with her own eyes this dear Friend who had died for her, her little frame shook with nervous excitement.

"Shall I really t shall I really?" she kept on repeating with clasped hands. "Oh, sir! I will thank Him so much when I do."

"But are you sure, quite sure," she continued, after a short pause, "that Jesus will listen when a little child speaks?"

"I am quite sure, Sybil," was Mr Williams' answer; "for I knew a little child once who spoke to Him, and He answered her."

"Was she as little as I am, sir?"

"She was just your age. Look at the other picture which gives me comfort, Sybil, and tell me what you see."

Sybil turned towards the other picture directly.

"A little girl in a white frock with black ribbons, sitting in a garden with flowers all round her. Is this the one who spoke to Him?"

"Yes; she loved Him, and was always speaking to Him."

"And He was her Friend too."

"He was her Friend, and He is her Friend; she is living with Him now," said Mr Williams, as he turned away and busied himself with something in the box.

"And you knew her, sir?" asked Sybil, in a low voice, for she felt instinctively that she was approaching a sacred subject.

"She was my own little child, Sybil. I loved her so much that I would have kept her with me always; but Jesus loved her better than I did, and He called her to go home and live with Him."

"Did you hear Him call, sir?"

"Yes; we heard Him call, long before little Julia went away; and she heard Him too, and knew that she was going, and she was glad to go. When she was so weak and thin that she could no longer walk about, nor even bear to be carried about, she used to lie on her bed with her little hands folded together, asking Jesus to come quickly and fetch her away."

"Perhaps" said little Sybil, softly.

"Perhaps what, dear?" demanded Mr Williams, when he found the child did not proceed.

"Perhaps, sir, Julia had some one waiting for her in Jesus' home whom she wanted to see again."

"She had, Sybil; her dear mother was waiting for her, and her little baby-brother; and Julia knew well that she should see them both again."

"Oh, sir! I wish I could go too."

Mr Williams glanced up hastily, for the child was sobbing, with her face buried in her hands. He rose and went to her.

"My little lamb, you musn't cry like this. I tell you these stories to try and comfort you, not to distress you."

"But to think of Jesus coming -- so strong and good and kind -- to take me there, and then to see my mamma and my own dear papa again! Oh, sir!" she continued, clinging convulsively to Mr Williams' arms, "ask Him to take me -- ask Him to take me! There is no one left here to care."

"Sybil, my dear, He will take you, but it must be at the time He thinks best. Pray to Him every night and morning, and whenever you think of it, to make you fit to go and live with Him in heaven, and you need not be afraid but that, sooner or later, He will come Himself and fetch you away -- call you as He called my little Julia -- to live with Him for ever. Fancy how happy we shall be, Sybil, when we are all together again: you with your papa and mamma, and I with my dear wife and little children, and Jesus' love to thank for it all!"

He spoke cheerfully, for he wanted to raise the child's spirits, but she continued to cry, and the sound of her sobs attracted the attention of some one outside.

"I believe I hear her crying at this very moment," said the voice of Mrs Barlow. "Where can she have got to? -- the tiresome little plague, bringing one down into this dark, dirty place just to look after her!"

Mr Williams immediately stepped to the cabin door.

"If you are looking for Miss Sybil Ransford, madam," he said to Mrs Barlow, "she is in my cabin. I asked her to come in, as I much enjoy talking with little children."

"In your cabin!" exclaimed Mrs Barlow, in a tone, of indignation, as she looked from the crown of Mr Williams' head down to the sole of his foot. "I never heard of such a piece of impertinence in my life. Ayah, go in and fetch Miss Sybil out of that cabin directly."

Mr Williams was terribly afraid that he had led poor little Sybil into a scrape.

"I hope you will not attach any blame to the child, madam," he said. "She was passing the cabin-door, and I asked her in. Indeed, I did more -- I carried her in."

"Then I consider that you took an unwarrantable liberty, sir," replied Mrs Barlow, angrily.

"Surely it is not unpardonable to take pleasure in amusing a lonely child."

"A lonely child! What next, I wonder? I repeat, sir, that I consider your conduct very intrusive, and if you cannot remember your place better for the future" --

"My place, madam!"

"Certainly, as a second-class passenger! I say that if you forget yourself so far again as to address the children of the first-class passengers on equal terms, I shall speak to the captain about it."

Mr Williams drew backwards.

"True! I forgot my present position. Yet," remembering Sybil's loneliness, "if you would not object, madam, to my sometimes speaking to this little child, you may rest assured that I shall teach her nothing but what is right for her to know."

"I do object, very strongly," said Mrs Barlow, curtly, "and I request that you will not address me again. I am not used to be addressed by strangers, and I have no intention of subjecting myself to it further."

"Under these circumstances," said Mr Williams, sadly, "I have no alternative but to submit to your decision."

Coolemah here appeared, bearing Sybil in her arms.

"Put that child down, ayah: a great baby! You make her more intolerable every day from the way in which you spoil her. Now, what have you been crying for, miss? Put your finger in your eye, I suppose, or some such nonsense? Go up-stairs at once, and don't let me catch you down in the steerage again."

And off flounced Mrs Barlow in the same direction, trailing her green silk skirt all over the dirty lower-deck as she went. She had not allowed Sybil even to shake hands with Mr Williams at parting. He looked after the little figure in its black frock till it had disappeared up the ladder, and then went back into his cabin, and prayed to God to be with the little child whom he was not to be allowed to befriend any more.

CHAPTER XIV.

The next morning the ayah popped her head very early into Mrs Barlow's cabin to tell her that Sybil was sick.

"Sick! what nonsense!" exclaimed Mrs Barlow, who did not like being waked from sleep before her time. "What is the matter with her?"

"I don't know, ma'am; but missy was crying plenty last night after she went to bed, and now her head is very hot, and she can't bear the light, and keeps on asking for water to drink."

"Tiresome child! I suppose, with her usual peevishness, she has cried herself ill. Go back, ayah, and as soon as I have my dressing-gown on, I will come and look at her."

So, in a few minutes, Mrs Barlow came bustling into little Sybil's cabin.

She found that what Coolemah had said was true. The child was very feverish, with parched lips and crimson cheeks, and her hands and feet were hot and dry.

"How very provoking!" said Mrs Barlow, as she examined her. "I do hope she is not going to have scarlet fever or anything infectious. Ayah, you had better take George Augustus and Leopold Alfred at once into my cabin. And just as we are within a week of arriving at the Cape of Good Hope! Why! they may object to our going on shore. I never knew anything so annoying."

And Mrs Barlow knocked the things about the cabin as though poor little Sybil had really done it on purpose to put her to inconvenience. Then she sent for the doctor, and he had to get out of his warm berth, and come up-stairs to look at Sybil's tongue and feel her pulse.

The doctor could not tell at first what was the matter with her; it might be the commencement of the measles or the scarlet fever or the chicken-pox; or it might be a chill taken from staying up on the deck too late at night; or the effects of the sun striking through her little straw hat as she ran about in the middle of the day. But he saw at once that Sybil was a very delicate child, and he told Mrs Barlow so.

"You must take great care of this little girl, madam. She should have everything that is most strengthening to eat and to drink; and never allowed to over-fatigue or over-excite herself in any way."

"Dear me, doctor! you talk as if the child had no one to look after her," replied Mrs Barlow, pettishly; "whereas I am taking her home, at considerable trouble to myself, as one of my own family, and she is treated in every respect as though she belonged to me."

"I have no doubt of it, madam, and I did not intend for a moment to reflect on your care or solicitude; only, you must remember that she is differently constituted from your four fine healthy boys; and that what they might bear with impunity, would have a serious effect upon her."

Mrs Barlow bridled with pleasure at hearing her boys praised, and forgot the most important part of the sentence, which related to Sybil. It is human nature to think most of what belongs to ourselves.

"They are fine children, doctor, are they not? Albert Edward was only ten last birthday, and he is half an inch taller than Colonel Frampton's eldest boy, who is going on for twelve. And you will scarcely believe me, but my youngest, Leopold Alfred, weighed fourteen and a half pounds when he was born, and measured two feet in length. But their papa is a very fine man -- six feet high and broad in proportion; and I have heard him say that his father" --

"Yes, yes," interrupted the doctor, who wanted to get back to bed and finish his morning sleep. "All splendid, no doubt. But look here, Mrs Barlow; keep this little girl warm and quiet for a few hours, and then I shall be better able to tell you what this attack will turn out to be."

"But who is to wait on her, doctor?"

"Well, your ayah must do it, I suppose; she seems willing and capable."

"But if it should turn out to be something infectious?"

"We cannot help it, madam, if it does. But if you are afraid, keep your children away from her."

"But then I shall have to look after them myself."

At this the doctor turned quite cross. "And you will not be the first mother who has had to do so. Anyway, madam, this ailing child cannot be left alone, and your ayah or yourself must stay by her side until I see her again;" and so saying the doctor went away to his own cabin.

"If one of us must stay here, it must be the ayah," said Mrs Barlow, as he disappeared. "I should not think it right to run any risk myself, for the sake of my precious children ." and so she too went away and sent Coolemah to take her place.

Sybil was glad to be left alone with Coolemah, who was always so kind to her; she could not talk much because her head was so painful, but she liked to feel the soft wind which the fan made, and the ayah's cool fingers laid every now and then upon her forehead.

"Ayah," she whispered presently, "what is that place where Mrs Barlow said we should come to in a few days? The Cape of Good Hope! is that another sea?"

"Another sea! no, no, missy; that is a land -- a beautiful country, where there are plenty of green trees and fields and flowers. Very fine place that Cape of Good Hope; and plenty of my people there too. I very glad to see that place."

"Land!" said the child, as the colour rushed into her face; "shall we walk upon the land, ayah? Oh! I am so glad! I am so tired of the sea and the ship; I shall be so glad to run about on the grass again. But then this land isn't England, ayah, and how is that? I thought that the first land we should come to would be England."

"Oh no! it's not England," said the ayah; "it's a very fine country, but not so fine as England. But it's half way to England, and the ships stop there to take in coals and water and good meat and bread, and then go on again."

"And how long shall we stay there, ayah?"

"Perhaps a week, perhaps two, three days -- ayah not knowing; only missy will be very pleased to see pretty shops and gardens and roads, and to live in nice house again."

"Oh! very pleased!" said Sybil, and then she lay back tired, but with a smile on her face, as she thought of the pleasures in store for her at the Cape of Good Hope.

When the doctor came again, he did not find Sybil any worse, but said she was suffering from an attack of low fever, and must be kept quite quiet, and fed with all sorts of nice things till she got strong again.

The week that followed was the happiest time she spent on board the Lady Gower, for the boys were not allowed to go near her cabin, and she saw no one but Coolemah and the doctor all day. And when the sun went down, and a cool breeze blew over the water, and her head felt better, she would lie with her little hand clasped in the ayah's, whilst she listened to stories about the Cape of Good Hope. For Coolemah had been to England once before, and remembered all about the Cape and what she had seen there.

"Perhaps," said Sybil, one evening, "I may see my Friend there, ayah."

"Who is your Friend, missy?"

"Jesus, ayah! He died for me, but He is alive again, and lives up in the sky and all over the world; and when children talk He listens and answers them, and I have been talking to Him to-day when the sun was so hot and my head ached, and I asked Him to take the pain away, and you see He has. And so now I am sure He can hear, and I am going to ask Him to come to the Cape of Good Hope that I may see Him there."

"Missy talking nonsense," cried Coolemah, who was afraid that Sybil did not know what she was saying. "Missy got plenty good friends in England, but none at Cape of Good Hope. Missy much better go to sleep again."

"No, indeed, ayah! it is not nonsense," said the little girl, earnestly; "because the gentleman said it was true. And little Julia talked, and Jesus heard her, and she is living with Him now; and perhaps He may bring her with Him too. I should like to see Julia very much."

"Oh, dear! oh, dear! missy better take medicine again."

"No, ayah! not until the proper time. And oh! if Jesus would bring my papa and mamma, how happy I should be! But the gentleman didn't say so; he said I should go to them some day instead." Then, with a deep sigh, "Oh! how I wish I could see that gentleman again!"

"What! the gentleman down-stairs, missy? You know missus saying missy must never go there again. But why missy want to see him?"

"Only to ask him if he thinks Jesus will be at the Cape of Good Hope; because I am going to ask Him, and He always hears."

Sybil thought a great deal in her old-fashioned way about this matter, but she never mentioned it again, and Coolemah thought she had forgotten it. The doctor's medicine and beef-tea and chicken-broth soon set her up, and on the morning when he had promised that she should be dressed and go on deck, she waked very early in anticipation of the coming change.

But she had not long had her eyes open before she became aware that something was not the same as usual -- for the swinging tray that hung in the middle of the cabin ceiling was quite still, and there was a curious sound outside the port as though the sea were going tap, tap, tap against the sides of the vessel.

"Ayah, ayah!" she cried, "why is the ship so still, and what is that funny noise I hear outside the port?"

Coolemah did not answer, but she turned round from the box in which she was packing some of the children's clothes, and lifted Sybil out of her bunk and held her up to the window.

"What missy seeing?" she asked, chuckling.

Sybil clasped her hands in ecstasy. Before her lay a beautiful green tableland, covered with trees and white houses and gardens, with men and animals moving about them, and behind these were blue and grey mountains, and in front the sea was full of ships and little boats, laden with fruit and vegetables and flowers.

"Oh, ayah! is that the Cape of Good Hope come at last?"

"Yes, missy, come at last. And now let ayah make haste and put you on nice white frock and sash, for as soon as children are ready, we all going on shore to have breakfast."

At this moment there came a violent kicking and thumping at the door.

"Coolemah! give us out our best suits. Mamma says we are to put them on at once, because the boat's ready to take us on shore."

"Yes, yes, Master Dolph, I give them directly if you good boy, but mustn't make so much noise at door when little missy sick."

"But I want my things," reiterated Dolph.

"Oh! let him in, ayah," pleaded Sybil, "for I am quite well now;" and she pattered across the cabin floor with her little bare feet, and opened the door to him herself. "O Dolph! aren't you glad that we have arrived at the Cape of Good Hope, and won't it be delightful to go on shore and see the beautiful green trees again?" She had forgotten everything, poor little child, but the pleasure in prospect; and Dolph, not having seen her for a week, was on his best behaviour.

"Yes; won't it be a lark?" he answered; "and isn't it lucky that you've got well in time for it? We shall see no end of orange-trees, mamma says, with real oranges growing on them, and sheep with great bushy tails that sweep along the ground, and shops with toys in them, and I've got a whole half-sovereign to myself (that's five rupees, you know), and I'm going to spend it all."

"Oh! how charming," exclaimed Sybil, joyfully; then, in a more subdued key, "you'll let me go with you, Dolph, sometimes at least, won't you? to see all the pretty things."

"Oh! I suppose so -- if mamma likes, that is to say; but we have several friends who live here in great big houses, and perhaps they mayn't ask you to go, you know."

"No, perhaps not," said little Sybil, reflectively.

But by this time there was a great noise and shouting going on above, and the children were eager to learn what it all meant; so Adolphus, having inducted himself into his own clothes, threw all his brothers' in a heap into the other cabin, and taking Sybil by the hand, prepared to lead her upon deck.

CHAPTER XV.

There was almost as much bustle on deck as there had been when the Lady Gower was about to start from Madras.

The sailors were running about everywhere -- some up amongst the sails and rigging, some bringing up the baggage which the passengers required with them, and others putting the ladies and children into the boats which waited to take them on shore.

The captain was busy talking and shaking hands with a group of strange gentlemen whom Sybil had never seen on board before, and black men (quite different black men from those she had known in Madras), with merry eyes and flat noses and great sticking out lips, were carrying about baskets of fruit on their woolly heads, and asking everybody if they would buy some. Dolph was just going to buy a great water-melon as big as his own head, when old Jack Harris came by, carrying a box down to one of the boats.

"Don't you buy any fruit on board, my young master," he said in passing, "for he'll cheat you through thick and thin. Ay! that you would, you black rascal!" he added, good-temperedly, to the grinning native; and then, perceiving Sybil, "Why! is this my ladybird going on shore? Well, I am glad of that. You're going to have a good scamper, I warrant, and the very thought of it has brought the roses to your cheeks."

And indeed, what with excitement and pleasure, Sybil's cheeks had turned quite pink and pretty.

Everybody seemed so happy, it made her gay even to look at them. The children were all dressed in such nice embroidered frocks and coloured sashes to go on shore; and even the mammas had brought out new hats or dresses to wear which they had kept locked away for the occasion. And every one was talking of what he or she intended to do, or where they intended to go; for the Lady Gower was to stay a whole week at Cape Town, and all meant to make it a week of pleasure.

Presently Mrs Barlow came up on deck, attended by Coolemah and the rest of the boys.

Sybil was rather timid in the presence of this lady now, because she had been so rough in her manner towards her lately; but Mrs Barlow was as pleased as everybody else at the idea of getting on shore again, and had no time to find fault even with Sybil.

"Dear me, child!" was all she said, as she observed her; "how well you look! I don't believe that doctor knows anything about his business; you could never have picked up so soon if you had been really ill. Come along now; our boat is waiting. Ayah, you must carry Master Leopold Alfred down the gangway and the sailor will take George Augustus. Albert Edward, my darling, don't go near the steps alone; you will assuredly slip. Dolph, keep close to me; and where is Reginald Francis? I cannot go down, sailor, until I have seen all my children safe into the boat. I should perish if anything were to happen to one of them!"

And so, amid many adjurations, entreaties, and warnings, Mrs Barlow and her five sons were at last safely launched upon the water. Little Sybil was carried down by some one, she hardly knew who or how, and placed by their side; and in another minute the boat was dancing over the bay, and making quickly for the opposite shore. How pleasant it was to go gliding over the smooth water, which was so clear that they could see their faces reflected in it, and to pass the other boats, with their white and red awnings, filled with people laughing and talking like themselves, and to watch the ship growing smaller and smaller as they got farther away from it, till they could distinguish neither the faces nor figures of those they had left on board! And then, when they had reached the landing-place, and were lifted out of the boat on to an ugly wooden wharf, and turned once more towards the sea, the children could hardly believe that the little ship their mamma pointed out to them in the distance could be the Lady Gower.

What a long, long way they must have come! However they were all too hungry to stay talking on the wharf, and were only too glad to reach the door of the hotel, which was not far from the place where they had landed.

Breakfast was the first consideration; and as this was the first day on shore, and Mrs Barlow had had no time to make any arrangements, the children were all to breakfast with her at the table d'hte, which means the breakfast in the general dining-room of an hotel, where all those who do not wish to have their meals by themselves assemble.

And what a breakfast it was! The children opened their eyes and stared when they were led up to a long table where covers were laid for fifty or more people, and where there were eighteen or twenty dishes on each side of the table. It was more like a dinner than a breakfast, Sybil thought, for there were dishes of fish of all sorts, and cutlets and beefsteaks and muttonchops and kidneys, and many more beside. Albert Edward, of course, called out for lobster and prawns and pickles, and all kinds of things that were not good for him, directly he sat down to the table; and in order that he should not make a noise and disturb the rest of the company, his mamma was obliged to give them to him; and seeing this, Coolemah made bold to get a nice cutlet and put it on Sybil's plate, for she knew the child must be faint from her long fasting.

Mrs Barlow did not seem to like the ayah being so officious.

"What has that child got there?" she said, tartly. "Cutlets! the very worst thing for her. Why don't you ask me before helping the children, Coolemah?"

"Cutlet not doing missy any harm," replied the ayah coolly, as she put a heap of mashed potato on little Sybil's plate beside.

"Well, I think otherwise, and so you'll attend to what I say to you," replied her mistress.

"That boy of yours will be ill, madam, if you allow him to eat any more crayfish," interrupted a voice from across the table. "Perhaps you are not aware that an over-indulgence of the appetite for crayfish in this climate is apt to produce consequences not easily got rid of."

"Oh, my darling child! be careful," exclaimed Mrs Barlow, as she turned towards Albert Edward. "No, no more, dear, I must insist upon it. You heard what that gentleman said. Come, try a cutlet instead; they're very good, I can assure you;" and she heaped the rest of the dish of cutlets upon young Hopeful's plate.

As soon as the breakfast was concluded, Mrs Barlow, accompanied by her four elder children, went out to see the town; but Sybil was so tired that she stayed at home with the baby, and Coolemah took off her frock, and placed her on a nice white bed, and tucked the net curtains in all round her, and she soon fell asleep, and slept until the boys came running in again to show the presents their mother had bought them.

Albert Edward had a gun that could shoot peas; Dolph, a regiment of tin soldiers; George Augustus, a box of ninepins; and Regy, a white woolly lamb upon a green stand, that he could drag after him wherever he went. Sybil sat up on the bed with flushed cheeks, and eagerly examined the treasures of her companions. They would have seemed very ordinary toys to children reared in England, perhaps, but the charm of them to these children was that they were English; for very few English toys are exported to India, and such as do arrive there fetch high prices. The shops at Cape Town are much more like English shops than those in India, and so are the articles which they sell; so that the little Barlows' presents possessed all the charm of novelty to them, as indeed they did to Sybil Ransford also.

"Look here! isn't this jolly?" exclaimed Albert Edward. "I can shoot off these peas from the window at any one who passes by. Here! give it to me; there goes an old nigger! See if I don't hit him right in the eye."

"I like my soldiers better than your gun," said his brother Dolph, "because mamma says you may only shoot it off out-of-doors, and I can play with mine on the table at any time."

"And so can I with my ninepins," said George; "and they're stronger than your soldiers, Dolph, and won't break so easily."

"But you can't take them to bed," interposed little Regy, "like I can my woolly lamb; and I can wash him in the bath, too, for he has real hair like a live lamb; and he was the very best thing in the shop; mamma said so."

"And mamma has bought you such a beautiful present, ayah," said Dolph, "only she said we weren't to tell. A scarlet shawl, that is all wool, to wear on your shoulders; only you're not to have it till we get into the cold weather, and only then if you behave very well, mamma says, because it's quite good enough for her to wear herself."

"Well, and did none of you think of little missy?" asked Coolemah, sharply, ignoring all the glories of the scarlet shawl.

"Don't, ayah, please!" said the child, imploringly.

She had been unable to help thinking of the omission herself; but she could not bear to hear it noticed openly. She did not envy the little boys their pretty presents; far from it. Only it was but natural she should remember that had she had a papa and a mamma, too, she would have had the same.

"Let me get up, ayah," she added, quickly; "I want to look out of the window and see all the strange sights that are passing by."

Just then Mrs Barlow came into the room.

"Well, my darlings," she said, "all happy with your toys?" And then she took the baby from Coolemah's arms and kissed him. "Ayah, I have just had a letter from the Colonel's cousin, Mr Harper Jackson, to ask me to go out to Rosen Hall and dine, and spend the night there. I shall take the four boys with me; so as soon as luncheon is over you must get them ready, and pack their nightdresses in a bag for me. And mind you look after that child there, and take the greatest care of my own precious baby" -- (here Mrs Barlow kissed Leopold Alfred vehemently) -- "until I come back again."

"Missus not be afraid," replied the ayah. "I take great care little missy and baby too. But missus have no pleasure with all those boys."

"Oh! I must take them," she replied. "Mr Harper Jackson would not miss seeing them for the world. And the carriage is to be sent for us at three, so that you will not have more than enough time, ayah, to wash and get them ready."

When the luncheon, which was the children's early dinner, was over, and the boys had driven away with their mamma in the grand carriage that had come for them (Mrs Barlow kissing her hand to the baby as long as she was in sight), Coolemah put on Sybil's walking things, and dressed the baby in his hat and pelisse, and prepared to take the two little deserted ones out for a walk through the town.

"Now, it is our turn to go and see all the pretty things, missy," she said.

She had a few annas of her own to spare, poor creature! (an anna is only worth three halfpence), and she had made up her mind to buy something for Sybil which should atone for the disappointment of the morning. The poor black ayah was the best earthly friend Sybil had left to her.

CHAPTER XVI.

That was a memorable walk for little Sybil. The first things she saw on gaining the outside of the hotel were two green tables placed on either side the door, and four green benches placed on either side the tables, and a row of lime-trees, the branches of which were cut short and square at the top, shading the tables and benches from the road and the sun.

She was just going to exclaim what pretty green arbours they made, and how nice it would be if baby and she might have their tea out there, when a tall figure, in a short red jacket, and a little round cap like a worsted pence-jug on the side of his head, rose up from one of the benches and made Sybil a military salute. She recognised him directly.

"O Corporal Brown! have you come on shore too? How very nice! And is old Jack Harris here, and little Jenny? I saw Jack Harris as we were coming away, but I had no time to ask him how Jenny was."

Corporal Brown looked delighted at the cordial recognition.

"She's quite well, miss, I believe," he said, in answer to Sybil's question, "and Jack will get a holiday in his turn before the ship starts again. I heard that you were staying at this hotel, miss, and I made so bold as to bring you a few flowers for old remembrance' sake. Not that you ever did come to hear me read 'Robinson Crusoe,' although you as good as promised it."

Here Corporal Brown unwrapped a large newspaper parcel, which lay on the seat beside him, and held out its contents to Sybil. It was a splendid bouquet, twice as big as the little girl's head, and the flowers of which it was made were scarlet, and blue, and orange, and white, and purple, and all of the very largest size. Sybil blushed crimson with pleasure and gratitude as she received it.

"O Corporal! how very kind of you -- how good of you to bring me such beautiful flowers! And when I never came to hear you read 'Robinson Crusoe,' either! But it was not my fault, Corporal. Indeed," she went on, earnestly, "I should have liked to come so much, only Mrs Barlow wouldn't let me, because -- because" --

The corporal drew himself up till he looked almost as tall as one of the trees.

"Because she didn't think me good enough company for you, miss, I suppose. Well, she must have a poor opinion of a man, if she thinks he'd teach any harm to a motherless child."

"Missy crying very much and wanting to go," said Coolemah, who was standing by.

"And I don't think what Mrs Barlow thinks," added the little girl, as she slipped her hand into the soldier's rough palm. "I think you look just like a gentleman, Corporal Brown, with your nice white belt, and these beautiful bright things on, and your hair so nicely parted and brushed -- much more like a gentleman than fat Mr Hawkins or old Captain Oakes. And I love you for bringing me these beautiful flowers, and I should like to kiss you," she said, as she held up her lips to his face. "And please to tell Jack Harris that I should go every day to see little Jenny if I might, but that I shan't forget her or him, and -- and" --

"And when you get to England," continued the soldier, cheerily, "you'll coax some of your good friends there to bring you back to have a look at the old ship and the old sailor, that you may just tell them freely whatever's in your mind."

"Yes -- if I get to England," said the child, thoughtfully. "Good-bye, Corporal. I am going for a walk now, with my ayah and the baby. I thank you again for the flowers. I am so glad I have seen you; and don't forget my message to old Jack Harris and Jenny." And so saying, the little figure, carrying the large nosegay, fluttered away from him, kissing her hand until she was out of sight.

"Ayah! this is the prettiest place I have ever seen in my life," said Sybil, after they had walked some little distance together. "How glad I am that the ship was obliged to stop here to get more meat and bread and water!"

And many grown-up people have said the same thing as Sybil, It was not a town perhaps that would have attracted much attention from a child who was going out from England, but to one born and brought up in India, it was all most wonderful and new.

The raised paths by the side of the road, which were reached by flights of steps cut in the soil, and sheltered by rows of trees, having chains one from another; the shop windows, in which the goods for sale were exposed, as they are in England, but never in India; the quaint Dutch houses (for there is a Dutch settlement at Cape Town, and the greater part of the residents are Dutch people), with their funny formal gardens, so straight and prim, with brick walks, and shrubs in painted green tubs placed along the edge of the beds. All these things, with many more beside, were matters for speculation to little Sybil as she walked by Coolemah's side. And presently the ayah stopped at one of the shops and went in.

"What do you want here, ayah?" asked Sybil. "Has Mrs Barlow told you to buy anything?"

"I wanting buy something," was the mysterious reply; and then, to the little girl's surprise, what the ayah wanted to buy was a doll.

"Got any fine Europe dollies?" she said to the woman who was serving.

The woman opened a drawer full of common wax dolls, for which she asked four times the price they would have fetched in England, and the poor ayah could not afford to buy them.

"Got no small dollies very nice?" she inquired, as she twisted half a rupee (which is worth a shilling) round and round between her fingers.

"Not at that price," replied the shopwoman, as she looked contemptuously at the half-rupee.

"Then for how much!" said Coolemah, eagerly.

"All these are a rupee apiece," said the woman, as she opened another drawer.

The poor ayah sighed; her wages were not very high ones, and she had three little black children to keep in Madras; but Sybil's loneliness, and the lack of love which she received, came into her mind, and she pulled out another half-rupee from the folds of her cloth, and choosing the prettiest of the dolls, laid the money down upon the counter. She was not a Christian, this poor ayah, but she ought to have been, for she had far more of a Christian spirit in her breast than many men and women who have been baptized, and yet live only for themselves. She had never heard of that dear Saviour who said that a cup of cold water given in His name should not lose its reward; and yet here she was denying herself to give Sybil what was even better to her than cold water to one who is thirsty -- kindness, and love, and sympathy.

The little girl had watched all her proceedings with interest and curiosity, but she had no idea that the doll was meant for her; and when they had left the shop, and Coolemah put the parcel in her hands, and said, "There, missy! Coolemah buy that for you," she couldn't believe it at first, and when she did believe it, she hardly knew whether to laugh or to cry.

"Oh, ayah! you spent a whole rupee for me, and when you have so few! Oh, dear ayah! how much I thank you. What a dear little dolly! How very kind everybody is to me to-day!"

Her raptures attracted the notice of an old Dutch lady who was sitting inside her little walled garden, with the green door left open. It was a dear little garden, prim and tidy like all the rest, and the old lady looked like a dear old lady, with her bright eyes and brown cheeks, which were set off so well by the long gold earrings and the fine lace cap with big flaps which she wore. She had been sitting in a cane-chair, with a gold-headed stick in her hand, watching Sybil and Coolemah; and when she saw the little girl kissing the good ayah, and heard her grateful words, she got up and hobbled down to the garden gate.

"Won't you show an old woman the pretty dolly too?" she said in broken English.

Sybil glanced up at her smiling face, and then held out her new possession for her to see.

"It is a very pretty dolly," said the old lady presently, and you have a very kind ayah. Ask your kind ayah to let you come in and see my flowers, and my hens and chickens, and my beautiful bird who can cry like a baby."

"O ayah! let us go!" exclaimed Sybil, joyfully; and in another minute they were following the Dutch lady up the bricked walk of the garden.

"And this is little brother!" said their new acquaintance, as she patted the baby's fat cheek.

"No, ma'am, I have no little brother," replied Sybil.

"Missy got no father, no mother. Going home England with Barlow Sahib's children," said the ayah, quickly.

"Then I must find something very pretty to show her," rejoined the old lady, with a kinder smile still at little Sybil.

She led them through a matted room on the ground-floor to the back of the house, where they found another garden full of flowers like those Sybil carried in her hand, and under a spreading green tree close to the house a wicker birdcage hung.

"Jack!" said the old lady, as they came in sight of it, "where are you, Jack?"

"Oh! the poor dog! where is it?" exclaimed Sybil, for suddenly there rang through the garden a series of yelps and howls such as dogs give when they are violently kicked.

She had scarcely said the words before a cat began to mew as loudly as the dog had barked, and then a baby squalled, and then somebody began to laugh and laugh as though all this yelping and mewing and crying were the funniest things in the world.

The old lady and the ayah had begun to laugh too at the comical expression of mixed distress and wonder which had spread itself over Sybil's face.

"Why do you laugh?" she said, earnestly; "is no one hurt?"

"No one is hurt, my dear," replied the old lady, "unless Jack has made himself hoarse with so much talking."

"And is it really a bird that has done all this?" said Sybil. "Oh! what a wonderful bird! how I should like to see him!"

"There he is," said the old lady, pointing to the wicker cage; and Sybil looked up and saw a glossy black bird, about the size of a magpie, with a very yellow bill.

"Is that all?" she said. She was quite disappointed.

"Ah! you expected he would be red and blue and orange, I suppose, with a tuft in his head like a macaw. No, little one; as you go through life, you'll find that those who do the most generally make the least noise about it. The macaw is a very fine fellow, all screech and red feathers, but he is as useless as he is fine. But my Jack doesn't let a sound escape him. Look at him now, listening to us with his head on one side. I believe he understands what I say as well as you do."

"He is a pretty glossy fellow," said Sybil, quietly, "and very clever. What is his real name, ma'am, and what does he eat?"

"He is a minaur, my dear; he was brought to me from the Straits of Malacca by my sailor son; and he eats fruit and rice, and meat when I give it to him."

"Does he eat the fruit off this tree?" asked Sybil, as she glanced up at the little egg-shaped yellow plums with which the tree was covered.

"Yes; these are loquats. Have you ever tasted any?"

"I don't think I have, ma'am; I don't think I ever saw any like them before."

"Then you shall taste some now, if ayah will let you," said the old lady, as she pulled an apronful of loquats from the tree.

"If they're quite ripe," said Coolemah, cautiously.

They were quite ripe; and the lady made the ayah and Sybil sit down in the garden, and called an old Dutch woman named Betta to bring some cakes and some milk, and they had quite a feast upon the lawn. And the lady's pet hens and chickens came round them as they fed, and pecked crumbs out of Sybil's hand; and she was so happy, it seemed like a fairy tale to her.

When they had finished their feast, and seen all the pets, and the old lady had picked some roses and geraniums to add to Sybil's nosegay, she kissed the little girl, and thanked the ayah for letting her visit her, and begged her to bring her again before she left the Cape.

"What a wonderful walk we have had, and how very kind everybody seems to be!" said Sybil, as Coolemah led her towards the hotel again. "My doll, and my beautiful flowers, and those nice Dutch cakes, and all! O ayah! I wonder if Albert Edward and the other boys are half as happy as we have been to-day?"

CHAPTER XVII.

The afternoon of the second day was far advanced before the carriage returned from Rosen Hall, and when it arrived, Sybil and the ayah and the baby were sitting on the green benches in front of the hotel enjoying the cool air which blew over the sea. As the carriage stopped at the door, it seemed full up to the very top with boys and baskets of fruit and flowers, and beside Mrs Barlow on the front seat sat a gentleman, who jumped down and helped her to alight, and lifted the children one by one on to the ground.

Sybil shrunk backward as the noisy group climbed the steps to the hotel, and would have been glad to escape notice, but Mrs Barlow caught sight of her baby, and directed the attention of Mr Harper Jackson (for that was the gentleman's name) to him at once.

"This is my baby, Mr Jackson. I am sure you will see a great likeness in him to your dear cousin."

"Indeed a very fine child. Yes, I think I recognise my cousin George, especially about the eyes and mouth. And is this your little girl too? I had no idea you had a daughter;" and then he turned aside and said, in a low voice, "What a pretty child!"

"Do you think so?" replied Mrs Barlow, coldly; "I never heard any one say it before. That little girl does not belong to me," she added, aloud; "she is a daughter of young Ransford, who died at Madras the other day, and I am taking her home (purely to oblige my friend Mrs Hodson, on whom she was most unfairly quartered) to the care of her grandmamma, Lady Newland, of Lorimer Square, London."

"Ransford!" exclaimed Mr Harper Jackson. "What! Robert Ransford of the 99th?"

"Yes, adjutant or something of the 99th. It was a sad business -- no money or anything! Did you know him?"

"Know him!" repeated Mr Jackson; "he was one of my greatest friends when we were boys together in England. Bob Ransford! and is he really gone? And this is his daughter! Why didn't you bring her out with you to Rosen Hall?" he went on, suddenly, to Mrs Barlow.

"Really, Mr Jackson, I should not have thought of taking such a liberty. How could I tell you would wish to see her? And in any wise, I should have imagined that my boys -- your own cousin George's own children -- claimed the preference."

"Oh! of course, of course, my dear lady. Pray don't be offended, but we have room for all. Well, at all events, you will bring her with you to-morrow to Fredericsburg, and we will see what the little maiden thinks of a picnic under the orange-trees. Do you think you shall like it, my dear?"

"Very much, sir," replied Sybil, shyly.

"What a voice it has! more like a bird than a human being. Well, good evening, Mrs Barlow. I mustn't keep the horses waiting, or I shall be late for dinner. The carriage shall be at the door by nine tomorrow to take you all out to Fredericsburg. Goodnight, my boys; good-night, my little singing-mouse;" and Mr Harper Jackson jumped into his carriage and drove away.

"I cannot imagine what put it into his head to ask that child out to Fredericsburg," said Mrs Barlow, peevishly, as she entered the hotel with the ayah and children; "as if I had not enough children of my own to drag about with me, without being encumbered with those of other people. And just because he met her father as a boy -- absurd nonsense! I hate romance, there's always so much humbug about it."

But here her attention was diverted by Albert Edward and Adolphus Frederick refusing to go to tea with the other children. They wanted to stay with their mamma, and to talk to her; they didn't want to have nasty bread and butter handed to them with the ayah's dirty black fingers.

"No, of course not," echoed their mother, "it's very natural. They're tired and hungry with running about all day; they shall come to dinner at the table d'hote with me to-night; they will not have another holiday before reaching England, poor darlings!"

So the poor darlings went down to the table d'hte, and Sybil crept away with the little boys to milk and bread and butter in the nursery up-stairs. But they were very cheerful and happy, for Georgie and Regy were full of stories of all the wonderful things they had been doing and seeing at Rosen Hall; and Mrs Barlow's vexation at Mr Jackson having asked Sybil to Fredericsburg had no power to destroy the child's belief in coming enjoyment, which had been strengthened by the glimpse of happiness she had had the day before. And even when she woke up on the following morning, and missed the nosegay of flowers Corporal Brown had given her, which stood in a jug on the mantelpiece, and heard that Mrs Barlow had come in the previous evening and thrown them out of the window, because she said flowers were so unwholesome in a bedroom, Sybil had not time to give more than a passing sigh to her lost treasures, so eager was she to commence the picnic under the orange-trees. They were all to go, for Mrs Barlow said she could not take charge of the children without the ayah's assistance; and so when the carriage arrived they were packed in like so many little bundles -- Mrs Barlow with Dolph and Georgie on the front seat; Coolemah, with the baby on her lap, and Sybil and Regy on either side of her, on the back seat, and Albert Edward on the box, where he made himself very disagreeable all the way, shouting to startle the horses, or pulling Sybil's long hair upon the sly, or calling out rude remarks to the people they passed upon the road.

It was a beautiful road; so beautiful that Sybil almost forgot the pulling of her hair as she watched the hedgerows, in which grew geraniums of all colours wild, and scarlet cacti such as we keep in hothouses at home, and yellow Cape jessamine and honeysuckles hanging in festoons from the other plants. And then she saw such curious sights upon the way -- long teams of oxen dragging heavy waggons in from the country, driven by men clothed in sheepskins, with pieces of wood and silver and horn stuck through their noses and ears and lips for ornaments, and carriages full of ladies taking their morning drive -- ladies with bright rosy cheeks, such as Sybil had never seen before; for the English ladies brought up at the Cape of Good Hope have perhaps rosier cheeks than they would have had in England itself The children were never tired of commenting upon everything they saw; and as Mrs Barlow fell asleep almost as soon as she entered the carriage, they had the conversation all to themselves, and a merry time of it, until they arrived at Fredericsburg, which was not until eleven o'clock. Mr Jackson did not live at Fredericsburg; his home was Rosen Hall; but, like many gentlemen at the Cape, he was a wine grower, and at Fredericsburg was his plantation of orange-trees, and all the wine they made from it was packed away in the cellars under the house, which was occupied by his bailiff. But Mr Jackson and his son went there every day to look after the business, and when their friends visited Cape Town, they often invited them to go out there too, and see how the wine was made, and have a sort of picnic in the plantation; and that was why he had invited Mrs Barlow and the children to meet him there to-day.

When the carriage had driven through the plantation and stopped at the house, Sybil found there were plenty of people waiting to receive them; for Mr Jackson had a wife, and five sons and five daughters, and they all came running and laughing to the carriage door, and helped the children out, and gave them each a kiss as they reached the ground. So Sybil got twelve kisses before she had been a minute at Fredericsburg; and, strange to say, she did not feel in the least shy, but looked up as bravely as any of the others, and even ventured in some measure to return the embraces given her.

"Now, girls," said Mrs Jackson, "you must take care of these little ones till dinner-time; and mind they don't take their hats off, or spoil their appetites with too much fruit. You'll not be afraid to trust this little creature," she continued, touching Sybil, "with my young people, Mrs Barlow, will you? Fan and Susy are very steady, and will take the greatest care of her."

"Oh, dear, no! I am not at all nervous," replied Mrs Barlow; "the child is much stronger than she looks. I only hope she may behave herself properly. Now mind," she added, to Sybil, "that you do exactly as you're told, and try not to quarrel."

"Quarrel! dear Mrs Barlow!" exclaimed Mrs Jackson, "pray don't mention it: we don't know such a word, thank God, in our family. Now, girls, take them off and show them everything there is to be seen, and be back again here by one o'clock to dinner."

And laughing and promising, Fanny and Susy who were the eldest of the daughters, led Sybil away with them into the plantation. The first thing there was to be seen was a little dog who capered beside them. He was a curious looking little fellow, black and white, with a very bushy tail, large round eyes, long flapping ears, short legs, and such a very short nose, that it seemed as though he had no nose at all.

"What a funny dog!" cried Sybil; "do look at him, ayah! Is that an English dog?"

"No," said Fanny Jackson; "he is a Chinese dog; he came straight from Pekin, and is called 'Joss,' which is the name by which the Chinese call their ugly stone idols."

"And have you been to China?" asked the little girl.

"No; papa bought 'Joss' of a sailor on board one of the ships that came to Cape Town, many years ago, and we have had him ever since. But he is not the kind of dog which the Chinamen eat."

"Eat dogs!" cried Albert Edward; "the dirty beasts!"

"I don't think it is any worse than eating pigs, Albert."

"But it is cruel," said Sybil;" poor little dogs! Because dogs like to be petted, and pigs do not."

"Dogs like 'Joss' are very much petted in China. I have heard that the ladies of the court of the Emperor of China each have their little pet dog; and some of them are so tiny that they carry them about in their reticules. And when they visit one another, they bring out all their little dogs, and put them on the table, and compare them, to see which is the prettiest."

"Oh! how I should like to see them," exclaimed Sybil.

"I'd like to make them all fight!" said Albert Edward.

They had reached the plantation by this time, where the grass was rich and green under their feet, and the orange-trees, which were very tall, spread out their branches to the ground. The children looked at them with amazement, for they were covered with large green oranges, streaked with yellow, and bunches of white orange blossoms, the scent of which filled the air.

"How lovely! how beautiful!" said Sybil.

"What jolly oranges!" exclaimed Dolph; "I'll eat one."

"Do," said Susy Jackson, and she held a bough down so that Dolph might reach the largest orange he could see, and smiled as he greedily thrust it into his mouth. But the next moment he made a wry face and spat it out again.

"Ugh!" he said, "it's as bitter as can be; it must be a bad one."

"Try another to take out the taste," said Fanny; but he looked in her face, and saw she was laughing.

"I believe they're all so, and you knew it, you nasty cross ill-natured thing," he said, whimpering.

"But what of that, Dolph? you never asked my opinion. If you had, I would have told you that these oranges, nice as they look, are not fit to eat, and that their skins are full of oil; but you seemed determined to try for yourself."

And then all the children laughed, and Dolph said he should go back to his mamma; but Fanny persuaded him to stay with them a little longer, and pushing back the branches of the orange-tree, she led them all inside the leafy bower. When they were inside, and the branches were let down again, there was only grass under their feet and foliage all round, and they were in a charming green playroom.

"How I should like to live here all day!" said Sybil.

"And sleep here all night," said Bessy Jackson.

"You would feel like two little birds in a nest," replied her sister Fanny.

"I should like to swing from the boughs, and pretend I was a sailor on board ship going up the rigging," said Albert Edward, and he began to suit his action to the word.

"Don't climb," said Susy; "papa doesn't like the branches broken, and they are not strong."

But he would not attend to what she said, and the next minute there was a loud crash, and he and the bough came tumbling on the grass together.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Mr Jackson, who with his wife and Mrs Barlow was sitting under the verandah of the house, heard the crash and saw the accident. He was annoyed, because it was one of the finest trees in the plantation, and the broken branch lay just in front of the house.

"You had better bring those little ones away from there, Fanny," he shouted to his daughter, "or they'll be breaking their own limbs as well as the tree."

"Oh, dear! I hope that tiresome child Sybil Ransford has not been getting into mischief again," exclaimed Mrs Barlow, with a great affectation of anxiety.

"Don't alarm yourself," said Mr Jackson; "it is not the little girl; it is one of your boys: I saw him fall."

"Fall!" cried his mother. "Oh! let me go to him; he may have broken his leg."

"Hardly! for there he goes running like a lamplighter. Fanny is going to take them to the big tree, where they may indulge their climbing proclivities as freely as they choose."

The "big tree" was a very old and fine specimen of one of the largest trees that grow in Cape Town. For about eight or ten feet it had a straight trunk, which then suddenly forked out into four wide branches, and on these branches Mr Jackson had had a platform erected, which was railed round, and held a table and benches, and was reached by a flight of ladder-steps fastened against the tree. It was quite a little dining-room, and looked very pretty up amongst the green leaves; and Fanny told the children that it had been the custom for many years, on the anniversary of the foundation of the firm, for her papa and his partners to have dinner together up in the tree, and drink success to the business in some of the last season's vintage.

The boys were delighted with the big tree, for they could run up and down the ladder as much as they liked without a chance of breaking it; and they amused themselves at it famously, until Albert Edward tumbled down and hurt himself, and then he refused to mount it any more. That was always the way with Albert Edward; so long as he only annoyed other people, he could listen to no remonstrances against his rudeness, but directly he hurt himself, were it ever so little, nothing would tempt him to try it again.

He was a bully and a coward, and the two characters very often (though not always) go together; for a boy who is brave enough to bear pain well is generally brave enough to resist the temptation of inflicting it on others. When Albert Edward hurt himself he began to cry, and when he cried, his mamma came running to see what was the matter; and as the party of grown-up people was just about to visit the cellars and see the stores of wine, she promised, if he would leave off crying, to take him with her.

"Wouldn't you like to go too?" said little Bessy Jackson, who had made great friends with Sybil.

"No! perhaps she wouldn't like it," replied Sybil, shrinking backwards.

"She! what, my mamma! Oh, yes! she would. Mamma!" continued the child, aloud, "mayn't Sybil come too, and all of us?"

Sybil had not meant Mrs Jackson, but she did not think it necessary to tell Bessy so.

"Of course, my dear," was the reply. "What is right for one child is right for another. We make no distinctions here;"and Mrs Jackson looked rather hard at Mrs Barlow, for she never showed any partiality with her own children, and she thought it very wrong that any mother should do so.

The cellars ran all under the house; they had to descend a great many stone steps to get at them; and when they had done so, they were very dark and cold and gloomy, and the children did not think the sight of the huge hogsheads of wine, standing one on the top of the other till they reached the ceiling, interesting enough to compensate them for leaving the green grass and the waving foliage and the bright flowers they had revelled in up above.

"What a horrid place!" said Albert Edward; "don't let us stay here any longer."

Mr Jackson did not hear this rude speech: he was explaining to Mrs Barlow all about the process of wine-making, and the different kinds of wine traded in, and how long they had to be kept in the wooden hogsheads before they were fit to drink; and then he called one of his sons to bring him some wine-glasses, and he tapped one of the huge barrels, and handed some of the wine to Mrs Barlow to taste.

"Give us some," clamoured Albert Edward and Dolph almost before the glass had touched their mother's lips.

"Gently, my dear boys," said Mr Jackson. "Let your mamma drink first; "and then he poured out two more glasses, and the rude children drank them off at a draught, without so much as saying "Thank you" to him.

"And wouldn't the little girl like to taste it?" said Mr Jackson, as he offered a glass to Sybil.

"Thank you, sir!" she whispered; but as she put it to her lips, she stopped and changed colour.

"Don't you like it?" inquired Bessy.

"It's -- it's a little sour" replied Sybil, blushing violently.

It was a thin Cape wine which is never very sweet, and which people seldom like unless they are accustomed to it.

Mr Jackson laughed.

"Well, you shall have a sweeter one, my dear, that you will like better. Fred, tap that sweet Constantia in the corner, and give the little one a glass."

"Oh! not for worlds, dear Mr Jackson," exclaimed Mrs Barlow. "I never heard such nonsense in my life. It's all affectation, I can assure you: my boys could drink it, and why not she? I cannot allow you to take any trouble on her account."

"It's no trouble, Mrs Barlow; and as for boys, they will eat and drink anything. There, Sybil! I am sure that will be more to your little ladyship's taste," and he gave the child a glass of sweet wine.

"Now, I hope you will be satisfied," said Mrs Barlow, spitefully to her, "causing all this disturbance for nothing at all. You are a most important person to have barrels tapped on your account, I must say."

"I -- I -- didn't ask for it, ma'am," said the terrified child, as her eyes and spirits sunk under the influence of Mrs Barlow's voice and manner. Mrs Jackson came to the rescue. She was a good mother and a good woman, and several things she had observed were making her indignant.

"No, indeed; and if you had, there would have been no harm done, dear," she said, kindly. "You are too hard upon her, Mrs Barlow," she added, in a lower voice.

Mrs Barlow turned away and said nothing.

Meanwhile, under cover of the conversation, Master Dolph had slipped behind his mother and tossed off the first glass of wine which Sybil had rejected, and which she had placed upon an empty barrel which stood near.

"Aren't we to taste the sweet wine too?" he demanded, in a tone of inquiry.

"It's as Mr Jackson pleases," said his mother, coldly. "I suppose, if it will not hurt a child like Sybil, it will not hurt you."

"As Mr Jackson pleases!" echoed Mr Jackson himself. "Pray, Mrs Barlow, do not make such an impeachment on my hospitality. It is just as you please. If you think the little boys' heads can stand a second glass, let them have it by all means; but I must warn you that our Cape wine is not always so harmless as it tastes, and I should have thought one glass sufficient for such little people. However, you are the best judge."

"Oh! Albert Edward and Dolph are used to wine," she answered; "their papa made a point of giving them some every day at dessert;" and so Mr Jackson gave them each another glass, which, with that which he had stolen on the sly, made three for Dolph.

As soon as they reached the plantation again, Bessy proposed that they should have a game at hide-and-seek, for which the place, with its vast shelter of trees, was very well adapted. They all commenced running about therefore, and the exertion, combined with the heat, and the unusual quantity of wine which he had taken, soon made Dolph feel very thirsty; so he ran away to the back of the house to get something to drink.

As he rounded the corner he came against Henry, Mr Jackson's second son, who was superintending some workmen, and had not been down to the cellars with the rest of the party.

"Where are you running to, my fine fellow?" he said to Dolph; "what do you want?"

"I want something to drink, I'm so thirsty."

"All right! come with me."

So Henry led him through a back passage into the kitchen.

"Which will you have," he said, "beer or water?"

"Beer, please!"

"You're sure your mother will let you have it?"

"Oh, yes! we always have it at home;" which was a story, but as Henry Jackson was not accustomed to little boys who told stories, he believed Dolph's statement, and poured him out a glass of beer.

The child drank it off at a draught, and ran back to his companions; but very soon he began to feel so light in the head and heavy in the feet, that he could run no longer, and said he was tired, and must sit down in the shade and rest. He had not been there many minutes before he fell fast asleep; and when dinner-time arrived, and the picnic was laid out on snowy cloths under the orange-trees, Master Dolph was nowhere to be seen. They called his name high and low, but he never answered, and when at length Mr Jackson discovered his hiding-place, he could neither wake him nor make him move, so he took him up in his arms and carried him to his mother.

"I have found your little boy, Mrs Barlow, but he seems very drowsy, more so than is natural, and I am almost afraid he must have had more wine than is good for him."

"But, my dear Mr Jackson, how can that be?" exclaimed Mrs Barlow; "for I think you only gave him two small glasses in the cellar."

"He had a tumbler of beer with me in the kitchen," interposed Henry.

"And she made him drink up the wine she didn't want herself," said Albert Edward, pointing to Sybil.

"I didn't," replied Sybil; "he took it."

"Oh! of course, you are at the bottom of it, as usual," said Mrs Barlow. "I might have guessed that without inquiry. My poor dear boy! you ask for things that you cannot use, and he is good-natured enough to try and conceal your greediness, and then you accuse him of stealing them! And then, to see him overcome in this dreadful manner, and feel that the dear child is blamed for your fault! You ought to be ashamed of yourself."

And here Mrs Barlow showed symptoms of weeping, which threatened considerably to upset all the harmony and pleasure of the picnic party.

"My dear Mrs Barlow," interrupted Mrs Jackson, "you must allow me to remonstrate with you a little;. for I think, in your affection for your child, and your distress at seeing him in this state, you are forgetting what is due to this little girl. She never asked for the wine, so I don't think we can accuse her of greediness, nor did she say that Dolph stole it from her. That he did drink it I am a witness, for I saw him do so; -- not but what I consider it a very natural fault in a child of his age, only I cannot see that Sybil is any partaker in it."

"Oh! if you are all to be on her side, the best thing I and my children can do is to return home," said Mrs Barlow, now crying in good earnest, as she rose up from the grass, and insisted upon retiring to the house, where Dolph had been already carried.

The fun was now completely spoilt, for all Mr and Mrs Jackson's entreaties could not prevail on Mrs Barlow to return to her seat; and though they tried hard to make the children forget the unpleasantness that had occurred, it seemed impossible to do so.

It had been planned that, as soon as dinner was over, they should all drive out to the wine-press, and watch some of the process of wine-making, which would have been both amusing and instructive, but Mrs Barlow insisted upon breaking up the party, and going home instead. She would not wait till the little ones had had their tea, nor even till the day was cooler, but started as soon as the picnic dinner was over.

The children, who had been looking forward to more games in the plantation, were sadly disappointed; and as Bessy Jackson stood at the carriage door with, her arm round Sybil's waist, she said so.

"I am so sorry you are going, Sybil dear; I thought we should have so much more fun. Our nice party seems to have been quite spoilt."

"And if it has, you have only your friend Miss Sybil to thank for it," replied Mrs Barlow, who, with Dolph, still very drowsy, by her side, was already seated in the carriage. "If it had not been for her my poor boy would never have been in this condition, and then we might have stayed at Fredericsburg until the evening."

"Come, come, Mrs Barlow," interposed Mrs Jackson, as, with a reassuring kiss, she lifted poor little Sybil into her seat. "I thought we had agreed to say no more about that."

"Oh! it's all very well for you, Mrs Jackson, who have not the trouble of her from day to day, to make excuses for her conduct; but Sybil Ransford knows well enough how often I have to speak to her, and what mischief she has made since she came amongst us."

"She does not do it intentionally, I am sure," replied Mrs Jackson, as she patted the hand of the cowering child.

"What on earth can make Mrs Barlow behave to that little creature in the way she does?" she said to her husband as soon as the carriage was out of sight. "One would almost think she had a spite against the poor motherless child. It makes my heart ache to think of it."

"So it does mine," replied Mr Jackson. "We would ask her to let us have Sybil at Rosen Hall till the ship sails, but it would be no use."

"No use, indeed," said his wife; "she would only send us one of her unruly boys instead."

Meanwhile, as the carriage drove swiftly towards Cape Town, Sybil was hiding her face in the ayah's cloth, and wondering why it was that, whenever she went anywhere with Mrs Barlow or the boys, she was so very naughty.

CHAPTER XIX.

Mrs Hawkins and her daughter Anna were staying at the same hotel as Mrs Barlow, but, to Sybil's great contentment, both the mamma and her little girl were out almost every day; and when within doors, Anna considered it much beneath her to play with such young children as George, and Regy, and Sybil -- for she had never forgotten her early feud with Sybil, and took every opportunity still of playing off tricks in order to annoy and irritate her.

It was on the day after the picnic at Fredericsburg that Sybil, with her doll in her arms, was loitering about the vestibule of the hotel, of which, on account of its coolness, the children made a playroom, when a sailor appeared at the open door.

"Mrs Barlow staying here, and Mrs Hawkins?'" he asked of Sybil, and when she nodded her head in answer, he threw two papers into the vestibule, saying, "Please give them those," and disappeared.

Sybil picked up the papers; she knew that Mrs Barlow and Mrs Hawkins were sitting together in a room close by, for she could hear their voices where she stood; but she felt dreadfully afraid of going in without being told. She had not seen Mrs Barlow since the day before, and she was not at all certain how she would receive her. However, after a moment's consideration, she summoned up courage to knock a very weak little knock upon the open door of the room in which the ladies sat.

"Come in," said Mrs Hawkins, and then, as Sybil appeared, she almost started. "Is that the Ransford child? I hardly knew her. Why, she is a perfect skeleton!"

"She never was fat," replied Mrs Barlow. "Did you ever meet the mother? A poor creature! Well, what do you want?" she continued to Sybil.

"If you please, ma'am, a sailor gave me these, for you and Mrs Hawkins."

"All right! give them here. Good gracious, Mrs Hawkins! what is this? A notice to say the ship sails to-morrow instead of Sunday! How very provoking! and when we had arranged to go to the theatre together! And I have not a thing packed."

"Most annoying!" echoed her friend. "Some crotchet, I suppose, of the old captain's; but any way we will not be cheated out of our fun. We can go to the Botanical Gardens this afternoon, and to the theatre this evening. We will make our last day a pleasant one, Mrs Barlow."

"So we will, and my ayah shall pack your things as well as mine. She is a lazy creature, and it will be quite a novelty for her to have something to do; for beside carrying about baby, and coddling that child, I really do not know with what she occupies herself."

So, directly after they had had their luncheon, the two ladies, taking Albert Edward, Dolph, and Anna with them, drove off to the Company's gardens, which were full of wild beasts, and birds, and curious plants, leaving Coolemah to take care of all the children, and do the packing. It was hard work, for the afternoon was very hot, and the little ones were cross and troublesome, and would scarcely give the ayah a minute to collect Mrs Hawkins' and Anna's clothes, and fold them up and pack them neatly away, let alone all their own little frocks and trousers and pinafores, and their mamma's muslin dresses and cloaks and shawls. Sybil wished very much that she could help Coolemah, but she was not tall enough to lift the articles out of the drawers, nor did she know how to fold them up so that they should lie straight in the boxes. She was also disappointed that they had to go on board ship a day sooner than they had expected, for she had been unhappy in the Lady Gower, and the very thought of it was distasteful to her. But then she remembered that Coolemah was going too, and Coolemah was the best friend she had, now that her dear papa was gone. She would not have liked to stay at Cape Town without her kind ayah, and so Sybil consoled herself with the thought that, as they were going together, it could not make much difference after all.

"If missy want to help me," said Coolemah at this juncture, "she better try and keep those children quiet. I never doing anything while they cling to my cloth so. Now, Regy, be good boy and sit down little time on floor."

"Yes, Regy, come to me and let us make a game up in this corner," said Sybil.

Regy was the smallest boy next to the baby; he was only three years old, and though he sometimes bit and scratched Sybil, he was much quieter than his elder brothers. And so he was very pleased to make a game in the corner, with his woolly lamb and Sybil's doll; and then Georgie, who was six years old, seeing how happy they looked, brought his ninepins, and said he would play too. Sybil was very patient and kind; she made up a fine game for them about her doll being a queen, and the woolly lamb a horse, and there was a great battle in the queen's country, and she would ride out to see it herself, and all her soldiers (these were Georgie's ninepins) begged and prayed of her not to go; but she was too brave to listen to the soldiers, and, as she was riding across the battlefield, a cannon-ball (that was the ball belonging to the ninepins) came and struck her in the heart, and "killed her dead."

Georgie and Regie seemed never tired of making" the queen ride across the battlefield, and be knocked down dead; and they laughed so over their game, that Coolemah stopped to watch them playing, and the baby stretched out his arms and crowed to join them. Now the baby was not a little tender baby: he was a great strong fellow of fourteen months old, who could sit upon the floor by himself quite well, and had begun to walk since he had been on shore.

"I wonder if baby sitting quiet with children?" said Coolemah, thoughtfully. "I do three times work without him; he getting very heavy boy to carry about."

"Put him down here, ayah," said Sybil, pointing to a place by her side; "I will take care of him."

"You not leave him one minute?" said the ayah, interrogatively.

"No, ayah! not one minute. Come, baby, come to Sybil;" and the baby, who, as I have said before, was a great friend of Sybil's, put his fat hand in hers, and was quite contented to be left under her care.

So Coolemah went back to Mrs Hawkins' room. At first baby was very good; for Sybil gave him a ninepin to rap on the floor, and he liked to hear the noise he made. But by and by Georgie took away the ninepin from him; he said they hadn't enough soldiers to talk to the queen without it; and then baby wanted the doll and the lamb, and the other children pulled them from him; and he began to whimper, and they said he was a nuisance, and called the ayah to take him away.

"No, don't call ayah; she is too busy," said Sybil. "I will find something else to amuse him with;" and placing the baby on his feet, she gave him her finger to hold, whilst she led him along in search of his india-rubber ball.

Now Leopold Alfred having just learned to walk, was very proud of walking, and when Sybil wanted him to stop, he refused to do so, but toddled right out into the corridor, pulling her after him by the finger which he held.

Sybil was afraid to leave him alone, and when she attempted to turn him by lifting him up under the arms, he roared, so she put him down again, and called out to Coolemah.

But Mrs Barlow had ordered the ayah to iron out one of her creased muslin dresses before she packed it, and she had run down to the hotel kitchen to fetch an iron; and so there was nothing for poor little Sybil to do, but to wait patiently on the tyrant baby, whilst he trotted her up and down the matted corridor until she was quite tired.

Meanwhile Georgie and Regy, grown weary of playing at the same game, decided that the queen should be hung instead of shot, and having detached the piece of string from Regy's lamb, they tied it round the neck of poor Sybil's doll, and lowered her out of the open window. This was a dangerous game, for the window was very high from the ground, and they had often been cautioned not to lean out of it; but they found it so interesting to let the doll dangle down as far as the string would permit them, that they never thought of the promises they had made.

"Let us get chairs," said Georgie, "and lean out as far as ever we can, and then perhaps we shall be able to dangle it on people's heads as they go by."

So they each got a chair and mounted on it, and had half their little bodies stretched out of the open casement when Mrs Barlow and Mrs Hawkins returned home in a carriage from the Botanical Gardens.

"Look at Georgie and Regy, mamma!" cried Dolph, as he caught sight of his little brothers.

In another moment, Mrs Barlow, flying up the stairs, encountered Sybil with the baby.

"Where is the ayah?" she asked, breathlessly.

"Packing, I think," replied Sybil, all in a flutter at her sudden appearance. Mrs Barlow rushed past her; pulled her two boys in from the window, and boxed their ears.

Of course they both began roaring; and at the same moment Coolemah, who had heard of the arrival of her mistress, came running up-stairs with a flat-iron in her hand.

"What is the meaning of this, ayah?" demanded Mrs Barlow, angrily.

"What missus want?" was Coolemah's reply.

"I leave you in charge of my children, and I come home to find Master George and Master Reginald leaning right out of the window, and this child taking care of the baby. How dare you leave them?"

"How I help leaving them?" demanded the ayah in her turn. "Missus want packing; missus want ironing; missus want everything. Missus better keep three ayahs, or look after children herself."

"What insolence!" exclaimed Mrs Hawkins, who had followed Mrs Barlow up the stairs. "Surely, Mrs Barlow, you are not going to allow the woman to speak to you in that way."

"I should think not indeed. You lazy, dirty, impertinent, good-for-nothing creature, how dare you address me in that manner? It was your business to look after the children, and you had no right to leave them for a minute."

"I went for iron for missus," said Coolemah, doggedly, "and little missy stop with baby. Little missy very good, always quiet and doing what told, but those boys very naughty -- no use talking at all."

"And pray why couldn't you have sent 'little missy,' as you call her, for the iron, and stayed with the baby yourself?"

"Send child like that for hot iron -- perhaps burning her face -- her fingers? No, missus! I mother myself. I never careless of poor motherless child;" and Coolemah looked at her mistress in a way that Mrs Barlow didn't like.

"And so you put your work upon her," she said, turning very red, "and leave her to be blamed for what you ought to have done yourself."

"No one shall blame little missy," said the black woman, fiercely. "I seen enough of that already."

"What do you mean by saying such things? You are as useless and untrustworthy as the rest of your race, and I wish I had never brought you at all. I should have done just as well without you as with you."

"I useless!" cried the ayah, "when I carrying that heavy child night and day, night and day, never no rest, and looking after other children beside. And you -- you talk so much, but never doing nothing. I the real mother to these children, you only always finding fault."

To these words, Mrs Barlow's anger almost prevented her making a reply.

"Go out of the room!" she said, pantingly.

"I not go out of the room," exclaimed Coolemah. "I telling everybody in the hotel, and in the ship, how you behaving. I tell what you do to this poor child, -- how she always wrong, and your bad boys always right. I tell what Barlow Sahib saying to you that" --

But what "Barlow Sahib" (which is the same in the natives' language as saying Mr Barlow in ours) had said never came to light; for at this crisis Mrs Barlow, stung beyond endurance at the ayah's reproaches, raised her hand to thrust her from the door.

"Ah! you may strike me," said Coolemah, defiantly, "but still I not caring. I tell everybody how you have treated Ransford Sahib's child."

Sybil, who had been watching the scene with dilated eyes and panic-stricken features, here rushed forward and grasped Mrs Barlow's arm.

"Oh no! oh no!" she gasped, "you mustn't, you mustn't! she is not bad, she is good, she is kind, indeed you mustn't" --

Her action had only the effect of turning Mrs Barlow's wrath upon herself, and the hand she grasped came down upon her own face.

"That's for interfering," she said sharply, as with a low cry Sybil turned away, and then she addressed the ayah again.

"You will quit my service at once. After such infamous conduct, I should not think of taking you on to England with me. Take off your petticoats and stockings, and the warm clothes I have given you, and never let me see your face again."

"All right!" replied Coolemah, as she stripped off the articles Mrs Barlow had mentioned, and left them in a heap on the floor, for her wages had been paid her before she left Madras.

"I too never wanting see missus' face again."

But here her heart relented. She had nursed and taken care of the baby ever since he was born, and she was very much attached to him.

"Only letting me kiss my boy once," she said, with a sob in her throat, as she stood up with only her own clothes on her.

"Most decidedly not," replied Mrs Barlow, catching up the child in her arms; "you do not deserve to have such an indulgence."

"Missus please!" said the poor creature, as she turned to leave the room.

"Ayah! ayah! I will kiss you," cried Sybil, as she sprung after her retreating form, and clung to her embrace, notwithstanding all Mrs Barlow's efforts to pull her away, "O ayah! don't go, don't leave me! Oh I what shall I do when you are gone?"

"Now that just shows what this child is made of -- sheer obstinacy," remarked Mrs Barlow, as, with a good shake, she detached Sybil from her humble friend. "She would hug that woman for an hour before my face, simply that she might annoy me. But I will not permit it. Go back to the other children, miss," she continued, as she pushed Sybil further into the room; "and as for you, you dirty, storytelling black creature, leave my apartments at once, and never presume to put your foot into them again."

CHAPTER XX.

As the form of the ayah disappeared, Sybil sank down on a box at the other end of the room, and Mrs Barlow turned to Mrs Hawkins with a laugh that was not entirely easy.

"Well, here is a pretty predicament! The ship sailing to-morrow, and I without any one to look after the children! What on earth shall I do?"

"It is certainly very awkward," replied her friend. "I don't think I should have gone quite to the length of dismissing her, had I been you. You may get one of the soldiers' wives on board to take charge of them to England; but they are sure to ask higher wages, and there are no servants like the natives after all."

"It's all the fault of these tiresome children," said Mrs Barlow, trying (like many people, when they find they have made a mistake) to lay the blame on some one else. "If they were not so thoughtless and disobedient, it would never have happened. Come to me, George and Regy. How often have you been told not to lean out of the open window?"

"No one told us to-day," replied Georgie, sullenly.

"I should think that child might have reminded them," interposed Mrs Hawkins, signifying Sybil; "she is older than either, and boys are always more thoughtless than girls."

"She gave us the doll," said Georgie, quickly, recognising an ally.

"What doll?" demanded his mother.

"The one we was hanging out of window. It's her doll, and she played the game with us, and taught us how to kill her -- so we did."

"Now, did you ever hear of such a thing as that in your life before?" said Mrs Barlow to Mrs Hawkins, in a voice of incredulous concern. "I trust this child, who has not the slightest claim upon me, with my own innocent children, and she actually employs the time of my absence in teaching them to disobey me, and risk their lives for her amusement."

"It is little better than murder!" said Mrs Hawkins, emphatically.

"Come here," said Mrs Barlow, sternly, to Sybil, "and stand before me. And now, what excuse have you to offer for your extraordinary conduct?"

But Sybil was too unhappy even to be frightened.

"Oh! I don't care! I don't care!" she said, despairingly. "You wouldn't believe me; let them say what they like."

"But I insist upon your speaking," said Mrs Barlow, with a shake.

"I made the game, but I never told them to hang it out of window," went on the child, in a hurried, stupefied manner. "They took my doll; I was with baby; ayah asked me to stop with baby."

"And you did not teach them the game, as Georgie says?"

"Oh yes! I taught them the game to keep them quiet; but they hung it out of window, and" --

"Falsehoods as usual!" said Mrs Barlow, with a shrug of the shoulders. "She made the game, and she didn't make the game; she gave them the doll, and she didn't give them the doll. Mrs Hawkins, what am I to do with this child?"

"Whip her," suggested that lady.

"I really think I must -- for the sake of example, if nothing else. Albert Edward, my dear, give me the stick you have in your hand."

But Sybil had never been whipped in her life before, and the thought of being punished in that way, and in the presence of Mrs Hawkins and all the boys, filled her with indescribable terror. A look of pain and indignation passed over her face; she turned deadly white, and twisting herself suddenly out of Mrs Barlow's grasp, cried vehemently, "You shan't whip me -- I won't let you."

"You little viper!" exclaimed Mrs Barlow, "we will soon see that;" and seizing hold of Sybil again, she struck her several times over the head and shoulders and face, wherever, in fact, she found a place to strike her on. The little girl bore the chastisement almost in silence, but as it was completed, she gave a slight moan, and lay down on the bedroom floor.

"She will think twice before she answers you in that way again," said Mrs Hawkins, with a laugh.

"Yes, I think so," replied Mrs Barlow. "I would not stand such impertinence from one of my own children, far less from that of a stranger. Come out of the room, children, and leave her to herself; a naughty story-telling child is not fit company for good boys and girls;" and carrying Leopold Alfred in her arms, and followed by Mrs Hawkins and the rest of the children, Mrs Barlow quitted the bedroom.

Left to herself, Sybil Ransford had but one feeling -- that she had been insulted; and but one desire -- to run away and never see the face of the person who had insulted her again.

The cruel and indiscriminate manner in which Mrs Barlow had struck the delicate child over her cheeks and shoulders and hands, had raised great angry red wheals on her tender flesh which burned and stung her, but she thought nothing of the personal pain compared to the knowledge that she had been unfairly disbelieved and punished. That stung her much more than the red marks on her flesh; and when she remembered how lonely and friendless she was, and that her last protector, Coolemah, had been sent away, she felt as though she could not stay without her.

Something in the burning pain which she felt in her body and in her heart as she lay upon the bedroom floor brought the remembrance of the cool shade under the orange-trees into Sybil's head, and she began to think how pleasant it would be to live in a green bower, like those she had seen the day before, by herself, and never to see the ship with its noise and bustle and miserable recollections again -- to run away and hide herself where they should not be able to find her, and for the Lady Gower to sail to England with Albert Edward and Dolph, and all the other teasing boys, whilst she lived in a little greenhouse of her own, and had the birds and the insects for her friends, and oranges to eat whenever she was hungry.

How long she lay upon the floor she never knew; but the idea took so strong a hold upon the child, and the terror with which she contemplated meeting Mrs Barlow again was so great, that when at last she heard that lady's step re-ascending the staircase, she leapt up and darted away to a cupboard in the corridor, and hid herself behind its friendly door.

Mrs Barlow had evidently got one of the servants of the hotel to look after her children for the evening, and was giving her instructions respecting them before she went to the theatre.

"I shall take my two eldest boys with me," she was saying, "so you will only have the three little ones to put to bed. "Oh yes! and there's another child, a girl, somewhere; she has been very naughty this evening, and so you'd better put her to bed at once."

"Ja!" said the servant, who was half Flemish and half German, and spoke a kind of patois of both languages. She did not understand anything Mrs Barlow said, but the mistress of the hotel had told her she was to put the English lady's children to bed and sit by them till she returned from the theatre, and so she thought it best to say "ja," by which she meant "yes," to everything that was told her.

"They have had their tea down-stairs with me," continued Mrs Barlow, "so they will want nothing more this evening. You will find their night-clothes on the bed; and I think you had better take them into the room at once, and don't let them see me again before I go, or they will want to come with me."

"Ja!" said the servant.

"And you mustn't mind if they cry a little-children always do with strangers; and if the baby won't go to sleep with you, make the little girl put him to sleep; he is accustomed to her, and she knows how to keep him quiet."

"Ja, ja!" said the servant, nodding her head, and she looked so much as if she understood all that had been told her, that Mrs Barlow put the baby into her arms, and thrusting the two other children into the bedroom and closing the door upon them, left them to make friends with the stranger as best they could.

Sybil, from behind the half-closed cupboard door, heard the baby crying and the new nurse trying to quiet him, and the little boys stamping about the room and shouting for their mamma, and was terribly afraid at first lest Mrs Barlow should return to learn what was the matter, and discovering her whereabouts, lock her in with the others, and thus rob her of her pleasant dream of freedom and a green orange bower, which was growing more and more like reality the nearer seemed her chance of securing it.

But Mrs Barlow did not return to the bedroom; perhaps because she thought she should do no good, or because it was growing late, and she wanted to go to the theatre. Any way, after a little while, she passed the cupboard door behind which little Sybil was trembling, and went down-stairs, and then the child heard their commingled voices in the vestibule, and the carriage drove away with them to the theatre.

Even then she did not dare leave her hiding-place until sometime after their departure, and then she crept out, and, with a scared look in the direction of the nursery, where all seemed quiet now, darted down the broad staircase to the lower part of the hotel.

No one noticed or spoke to her; it was too common a thing to see the passengers' children wandering about the passages and corridors, and at this time of the evening the house was particularly empty, as everybody had gone out to enjoy themselves; so Sybil gained the open front door unquestioned.

As she stood upon the threshold, she looked like a little bird standing at the open door of its cage; and then, as the little bird would have done, she spread her wings and flew -- ran as fast as her legs would carry her down the principal street of Cape Town, where she had walked with her ayah towards the open country.

She had no design in her head as she ran away: she had made no plans, poor weak little creature! as to how she should conceal her flight from the knowledge of her guardians, nor contemplated the consequence of her being discovered and brought back again.

She had no hat on her head nor gloves on her hands, she was running along the public road with only her white frock on, and the black ribbons which poor Coolemah had been used to tie in her sleeves and round her waist every afternoon; and it never occurred to her that she might meet people who would think it strange to see an English child so dressed and unattended, and ask where she was going, and think it their duty to take her back to the hotel and Mrs Barlow.

All she knew and thought of was, that she was lonely and ill-used and unprotected; that she had no friends in the place she was running from; and that in the place she was running to, the beautiful green orange groves where the little birds slept safely and the thick branches shut them in all round, there was peace and rest, and freedom from all insult and unkindness and harsh treatment.

So Sybil ran along, not lightly and skippingly, as children run when they are happy, but quickly and breathlessly, glancing over her shoulder every second in the great fear that she had been tracked and followed, or that Mrs Barlow might spring upon her from one of the many by-streets she passed upon her way.

Several people noticed the pretty little girl running so fast with her fair hair streaming in the wind, but they thought she had stayed out too late perhaps, and was hurrying home to tea and bed; and to see a child in those warm climates walking about in the evening without a hat or covering on her shoulders is not so unusual a sight as it would be in England.

One gentleman did stop as she ran past him, and look back and follow her; but, as he asked her name, and if she had lost her way, the look of impatient entreaty which came into Sybil's face made him think he was mistaken in imagining she wanted any assistance.

"Please don't stop me! pray don't stop me!" she said, imploringly; "for I am in such a hurry!"

"Very well!" replied the gentleman, and he let her go as she desired, though he looked after her little figure until it was out of sight.

And so on, and on, and on went Sybil, wishing for nothing, hoping for nothing, except to get away from those who had been cruel to her, until she had left Cape Town far behind, and gained the open country.

CHAPTER XXI.

It was nearly eight o'clock when Sybil Ransford ran away from the hotel, and it was nearly nine before she found herself quite clear of the many houses and gardens by which Cape Town is surrounded, and all alone in the silent open country, with nothing but fields and plantations on either side of her. The daylight had long since faded, but the full bright moon had risen instead, and made every object by the wayside as distinct as though it had been the afternoon.

Sybil had left off running now, and walked slowly, for she was unused to exercise, and began to feel very tired; a little frightened also, as she glanced timidly round her at the shadowy foliage which the moonbeams made look so dark, and saw no signs of life on any side. She could hear the chirping of the grasshoppers in the long grass behind the hedge, and the sleepy chuckling coo of the little parakeets as they cuddled up against one another on the branches; still it all seemed very quiet and solemn, too much so for little Sybil; and when a poor harmless squirrel ran down the trunk of a tree and scuttled across the road, it startled her so that she screamed.

Her scream sounded very loud in that quiet place, and she began to be afraid lest it should have reached the ears of some one who would discover and take her back to Cape Town and Mrs Barlow; and so she climbed over the next gate she came to, and dropped down into the dark plantation, beyond; for anything seemed better than the brightly lit road, where she could see everything so plainly.

But the plantation was not such a nice one as that at Fredericsburg; the trees were young and small, and afforded no shelter, and there were prickly things in the grass that hurt her hands and feet when she sat down.

She stayed there a little while, however, and she was so tired that she fell asleep with her head resting on a piece of fallen wood.

She slept for an hour perhaps, although she had no notion of that herself, and then she was waked up suddenly by the sound of carriage wheels coming along the road which she had left.

Sybil could not tell what sounds they were at first, nor where she was herself; but, as it all came back to her, her heart began to beat violently. Suppose it should be Mrs Barlow and Mrs Hawkins come out to look for her!

Poor little child! if she had but known it, Mrs Barlow and Mrs Hawkins were still at the theatre, enjoying all the funny sights and sayings they were seeing and hearing there. But Sybil had but one idea in her mind, and the great horror with which it inspired her made her understand that tired limbs and an aching head were as nothing compared to the prospect of finding herself once more under the thraldom from which she had escaped.

She sat up, listening with painful eagerness to the carriage wheels, which were going in the direction of Cape Town until they were quite out of hearing, and then, in spite of her fatigue, she rose up again and began to walk farther out into the country. She did not feel safe from Mrs Barlow whilst she was within reach of a carriage-drive from the town. She did not remember that, walk as far as she could, a pair of horses must outstrip her in an hour. Her poor little feet were so sore now that it was pain to put them to the ground, and she was so sleepy that her eyes closed as she walked along, and once or twice she stumbled and nearly fell. But she managed to crawl along the road for half-an-hour more, and then turned into another plantation; an old established one this time, where the trees were thick and leafy like those at Fredericsburg, and made little bowers of themselves. Sybil entered one of these and threw herself down.

The long cool grass was soft and wet with night dew, and the green branches enclosed her thoroughly, yet she felt neither safe nor able to rest. Fear and fatigue had taken complete hold of her, and the solitary child remembered only that she was in the dark and alone.

"Oh! I wish I wasn't! I wish I wasn't!" she sobbed in her terror.

Even the remembrance of the troublesome teasing boys and Mrs Barlow's cross words and actions were forgotten, as she thought of the warm bed where she had been tucked in snugly, and the meals which had been duly prepared for her to take.

"I shall be starved to death all by myself" she thought; "no one will ever find me here; wild beasts will eat me-oh I what shall I do?"

Some one answered the question-the great God Himself Quick as lightning there flashed into little Sybil's mind all that Mr Williams had told her on board ship of that good and true and faithful Friend who was always watching, always listening, always ready to hear and help and answer her. She had scarcely thought of Him since she had been at Cape Town; there had been so many new and beautiful and wonderful things to see and hear, that the remembrance of what the good missionary had taught her had almost gone out of her mind, but Sybil was in trouble now; she was in need of protection, and love, and help, and the truths which she had heard came back again, and she began to wonder if she might apply them to herself.

Could Jesus be there now? What if she should speak to Him? The lonely child raised her head from the wet grass and listened. There was no sound but the chirping of the grasshoppers and other insects, and the cooing of the little birds cuddling one another.

"Jesus!" she whispered tearfully, -- "Jesus!"

Now I need not tell the boys and girls who read this book that there was no outward answer to Sybil's call. The days are gone by when God condescended to talk openly to His creatures; because, since Jesus became man and left His own word for us as proof that He did so, He teaches us to live by faith; and if we saw Him with our eyes, and heard Him with our ears, there would be nothing left for us to exercise our faith upon.

But though we shall not hear His voice until He admits us to His own blessed presence, Jesus does speak to us every day through our hearts and consciences; and to those who are unhappy and yet trust in Him, He whispers such sweet consolations that they feel He is quite near them, although they cannot see Him.

And so to this poor, desolate, and unhappy child, who had no friend but Himself, Jesus drew near under the shelter of the orange-tree, and made her feel His presence, although she had so little knowledge of Himself.

"O Jesus!" cried the child, holding out her arms in the darkness, "where are you?"

And Jesus' voice answered in her heart, "Close to you -- speak to me."

"Oh, dear Jesus!" went on Sybil, "please be my Friend. I am so frightened. The gentleman said you were my Friend, and you know she wouldn't let me speak to Jack Harris, or Corporal Brown, and Coolemah is gone away. Please, Jesus, don't go away too. The gentleman said you could always hear me, as you did Julia. I am so tired, I don't know what to do; and yet I am so frightened, I can't go to sleep. But I shouldn't be frightened if I were sure you were close by. O Jesus! do speak to me, and be my Great Friend, and let me be your little friend and go to sleep with you."

That is not much like the prayers which your mothers have taught you to say to Jesus, but it was a prayer nevertheless, for it came straight from little Sybil's heart; and as He heard, He answered it. Before she had reached the last words, the magical influence of sleep was falling on the child's eyelids, and as she uttered them, all the pain and the terror in her heart died away, and she sunk backwards on the dewy grass in as deep and sweet a slumber as though she had been resting in her mother's arms. And the angels of God kept all hurtful things at a distance as the child slept, long and securely, beneath the orange-tree.

* * * * *

Mrs Barlow and Mrs Hawkins, with their children, came home from the theatre about twelve o'clock.

"Now, boys," said Mrs Barlow, "go up the stairs very quietly, for fear you should wake baby;" for it had been arranged that the baby should sleep in his mother's room that night, in case he should miss his ayah.

The baby was fast asleep in the bed, and at the door stood the sleepy servant rubbing her eyes and yawning.

"Are the other children all right?" inquired Mrs Barlow.

"Ja!" said the sleepy servant.

"Then you can go to bed now, and mind you come up to-morrow morning and help me to wash and dress them."

"Ja!" said the servant, as she disappeared down the staircase; and then Mrs Barlow said good night to Mrs Hawkins, saw Albert Edward and Dolph into their bedroom, which was next hers, and retired for the night herself. The baby was troublesome, and she was fatigued, and it was ten o'clock the next morning before she descended to breakfast.

"Where's Sybil, mamma?" said Dolph the very first thing.

"With the other children, I suppose."

"I can't see her, and George and Regy say she never came to breakfast."

"Then she must go without it; she is quite old enough to guess the time for herself. But go and look for her in the vestibule, Dolph. I want her to amuse baby; he does cry so with that German girl."

Dolph did as he was desired, but came back in a few minutes with the intelligence that Sybil was nowhere to be seen.

"If she has gone out without my leave, I shall punish her when she comes in," said Mrs Barlow, and she was strengthened in her resolution during breakfast, for she found it most inconvenient to eat it with the baby sitting in her lap.

The Lady Gower was to sail at noon; and as soon as the meal was concluded all was bustle and confusion; but Sybil did not appear. Then Mrs Barlow began to make inquiries of the children, and their answers resulted in her calling up the landlady to question the German servant, and then it came out that the little girl had never been to bed or to breakfast -- had not been seen, in fact, since the evening before.

Mrs Barlow was really frightened; she called up Mrs Hawkins to a consultation.

"What on earth can be the reason of her disappearance? Can she be hiding, or have gone after the ayah? or do you think that woman can have returned after we went, and stolen her just to put me to inconvenience?"

"It is impossible to say. I thought you were very foolish to give her such a summary dismissal," replied Mrs Hawkins. "However the question now is, what steps to take for the child's recovery? There will be a terrible work if you don't find her. Had you not better send for Mr Harper Jackson?"

"My dear, there is no time. It is eleven o'clock now, and as much as we shall do to get on board before the ship sails. Oh, dear! oh, dear! what shall I do? I wish to goodness I had never seen the little animal. Colonel Barlow will be in such an awful way if anything happens to her whilst she is under my charge!"

"Take my advice, Mrs Barlow. Tell the landlady to send people about the town to look for her, and that you will give twenty rupees to any one who finds her. The child can't have gone far; and then go on board with your own children, and consult the captain. He will know what is best to be done."

"But they will think it is all my fault; and you know, you are witness to the trouble that child has given me, and how disobedient she is, and" --

"Yes, yes; but that won't bring her back again, Mrs Barlow; and you will really get into a scrape if you don't take care."

"Oh! I am a most unfortunate woman," said Mrs Barlow, crying, "to be left in this cruel manner, with all my children on my hands, and now this fresh worry to upset me!"

However there was nothing to be done but to take Mrs Hawkins' advice, or they would all have been left behind. So Mrs Barlow, betwixt weeping and scolding, managed to get her family and luggage into a boat, and to put them safely on board the Lady Gower.

When she arrived there, she found the captain had not yet come off shore, but the first officer listened very gravely and attentively to her narrative of having missed the child that was under her charge, and promised to do all in his power to help her.

"I will despatch a boat at once on shore, and have the intelligence, with a description of the child, sent to Captain Oakes, and ask him to take the necessary steps for her recovery."

The boat was despatched, and in half an hour Captain Oakes returned in her. Mrs Barlow, who was watching over the ship's side, flew to him at once.

"Captain Oakes, have they found her?"

"Not that I know of," he returned, somewhat gruffly. "I have sent her description to the police station, and a note to the Governor, desiring that he will institute measures for her recovery as a British subject, and that is all I can do in the matter;" and he turned to give some orders to the first officer.

"But, captain, I can't sail without her."

"Then you had better go on shore again, madam, for the anchor will come up at noon precisely."

"But she may have been stolen; we may never hear of her again. Colonel Barlow will be so very angry," she went on, breathlessly.

"You should have taken better care of her then; we can't have some hundred and fifty souls put to inconvenience for the sake of a child."

"Oh! but, Captain Oakes, you surely might advise me."

"I see but two courses open to you, madam -- either to go on in the Lady Gower, or to stay behind. If you think it worth while to give up your passage and those of your children to look after this child, well and good; if not, you had better authorise some one to act in your stead, and, when found, to send her on to England by the next opportunity."

"And you think they really will find her, Captain?"

"I know nothing about it," said the captain, shortly, as he turned on his heel and went about his business.

"I wish I knew what to do," said Mrs Barlow, despairingly; "we cannot give up our passages, and yet to go without her" --

"Do as the captain proposes," replied Mrs Hawkins, who had also come on board; "authorise your cousin Mr Harper Jackson to offer a reward for her recovery, and to look after her till she can be sent home to England. And tell Colonel Barlow that Captain Oakes advised you to do so."

"Well, I will," said Mrs Barlow; and she wrote a letter to Mr Jackson, doing as her friend told her, and sent it off by one of the boats going on shore.

"And between you and me, "whispered Mrs Hawkins, "I think you are very well quit of the whole affair. You would have found her a greater nuisance than ever without the ayah."

"I daresay I should," replied Mrs Barlow; but she was not particularly comfortable about the matter nevertheless, and sincerely wished they were not going to start so soon. But precisely at the hour named, the Lady Gower unfurled her sails, and, with her bows set towards Old England, and the Union Jack flying at the masthead, sailed proudly out of the harbour of Cape Town,

CHAPTER XXII.

IT was noon upon the following day before little Sybil woke, and the Lady Gower had just rounded the harbour and been lost to view as she opened her eyes in the orange bower and stared about her, not remembering at first where she was. The warm sun had been shining on her bed for some hours before that, and drying the wet grass, so that it smelt like new-mown hay; and she had lain so still, that the branches of the tree were quite alive with little green parakeets pecking at the fruit and blossoms, and a grey squirrel, striped with white, stopped a minute to look at Sybil as she raised herself upon her elbow, before he ran away. Then it all came back to her, and the child knew where she was, and with the knowledge came the thought of her one Friend.

"Then I have been asleep," she pondered, "and Jesus did hear, and nothing has hurt me." With the conviction came the desire to appear grateful.

"I thank you, dear Jesus!" said the little one, simply. She had no more fear then, no more doubt of her safety, or provision being made for her wants. What the gentleman had said was true; Jesus could hear, and had heard, and Sybil was a child again, thinking only of the present, and without care for the future.

"Oh! what a dear little squirrel," she thought; "I wish he would stop and play with me. Why is he so afraid? And the little birds, too, they should have as many oranges as they liked, and I would not hurt them. Perhaps by-and-by they will understand, and will be pleased to hear me talk to them. Ah! I see the squirrel, he is not very much afraid, he has only run to the next tree. I shall call him Frisky. If I say Frisky every time I speak to him, he will soon know it is his name, and come whenever I call him. Here, Frisky! Frisky!"

But Frisky was stupid, and did not seem to understand; so Sybil got up, and picked an orange, and peeled it with her fingers, and ate it. It was very nice, she thought, much nicer than bread and butter and milk; but everything seemed nice and pleasant now that the sun was shining, and the grass was alive with insects, and the trees were full of twittering birds and happy little squirrels. Sybil did not concern herself at all about coming perplexities; she had found a way out of every difficulty.

"The ship was to sail at twelve o'clock, and I think it must be twelve o'clock now, because the sun is so hot, and there are no shadows anywhere. I wonder if Mrs Barlow is very glad to be sailing on the sea without me, and if Albert Edward and Dolph will tease Anna now that I am not there? I shall stay here all to-day, and perhaps to-morrow, eat oranges, and make up stories for myself, and then, when the ship has got very far away, I shall go back to the hotel, and ask them to find Coolemah. And I will ask Coolemah to come and live with me here under one of these beautiful orange-trees, and she shall cook curry and rice, and I will get sticks to make the fire burn. I know Coolemah can cook curry and rice, because she always cooks her own. And if I can't find her, I shall ask Jesus to find her, and He will; and I shall ask Jesus to be Coolemah's Friend as well as mine; and then we shall always have everything we want, and never be bothered any more."

Here Sybil's thoughts took another turn.

"I shan't be frightened when the dark comes tonight at all. The birds and the squirrels are not frightened, so why should I be?" And then, reflectively: "I wonder if the birds and the squirrels know about Jesus, too, and that He is quite near. I should like to ask the gentleman that. Oh! I wish the gentleman had stopped at Cape Town. I wish Jesus would send him back to me. Dear Jesus! do send that gentleman back again, that he may tell me more about you. I have so many things to ask him."

Here Sybil rose to her feet, and peeped out of her leafy arbour, and looked about her. She could not see anybody from where she was, but she could hear voices, and she guessed they were the voices of natives employed on the plantation. Suppose they should hear or see her, and take her back to the town, and the ship had not sailed yet. At that thought the child shrunk back and lay down again upon the grass, and for some time kept quite quiet, amusing herself with eating the fruit, and making up stories for herself, and watching the insects walking up and down the blades. But she was still weary from the unusual exertion she had made, and the anxiety she had undergone the night before; and the burr and buzz of the insects and the twittering of the birds were very drowsy sounds, so she soon fell asleep again, and slept for some hours.

She was waked by a rough cold nose thrust against her face, and a loud barking in her ears. The child started up in terror, to find a large dog by her side, and to hear several voices talking near the orange-tree.

What was going to happen to her now?

She screamed out in her fright, and the next minute the branches were thrust aside, and two black men, dressed in a kind of uniform, and grinning with delight, seized hold of her.

"Not to Mrs Barlow! not to Mrs Barlow!" shrieked Sybil. "I won't go back to Mrs Barlow."

"Put the child down," said an English voice, authoritatively; "you are frightening her to death."

Sybil looked up at the speaker. It was the same young gentleman who had met her and spoken to her the night before.

"Oh, sir! don't take me back to Mrs Barlow," she pleaded, as she clung to his knee.

"My little girl, no one shall hurt you," he answered, tenderly. "I have come here on purpose to find you, and to take you to a place of safety. Who is Mrs Barlow?"

"The -- the lady in the ship," said Sybil, with a shudder. "She doesn't love me; she beat me. Oh! don't take me back again."

"The lady who was taking you home, you mean. You are not going back to her. She is far away by this time in the Lady Gower, and I am come to take you to a beautiful house where no one shall be unkind to you."

"Did Jesus send you, sir?" inquired the child, solemnly.

The young man coloured.

"What did you say, my dear?"

"Did Jesus send you, sir? -- my Friend! -- because I told Him all about it last night, and He always hears, you know."

"Oh yes! of course, He sent me," replied the gentleman, who did not know exactly what to say; "and so now, will you not come?"

"Yes, sir, I am glad to come;" and she put her little hand in his.

The young man, who was an officer, lifted her in his arms, and carried her out to a carriage that was waiting at the gate of the plantation; and the two natives, who were policemen, mounted their horses and rode by the side. On the way her new friend asked Sybil many questions relative to her having run away from the hotel; and in return the child gave him a long pitiful story, that made his blood burn with indignation. As soon as they arrived at Cape Town, the carriage drove up under the portico of a large house, and the officer took Sybil's hand, and led her into the presence of a fine old man, with white hair and mustaches, who, with another gentleman, was sitting at a table covered with papers.

This was the Governor of Cape Town.

"Well, Dennison, have you been successful?" he said, as they appeared.

"Yes, Sir Archibald, I am happy to say I have. Here is the child."

"An English child who strayed from one of the passengers of the Lady Gower," explained the Governor to the gentleman who was sitting with him; "and for whose recovery I was left responsible. Dennison happened to meet her last evening during his stroll, and so I commissioned him to go and find her. He has not been long about it."

"Sybil Ransford!" exclaimed Mr Williams, for it was indeed he. "My child, how did this happen?"

"You know her?" said Sir Archibald; and there upon followed a confused mass of questions and answers and explanations from all three of the gentlemen.

Sybil took little part in the discussion. She had been scared before; she was fairly bewildered now.

"Sybil, my child, don't you know me?" said Mr Williams presently.

"Yes, sir; you are the gentleman" -- and then, as a sudden light seemed to break on her -- "Oh, I know! I know! He sent you because I asked Him!"

At this it was Mr Williams' turn to look puzzled.

"Jesus, sir!" said the child, pulling his coat tails. "You have not forgotten Jesus, our Friend, have you? I asked Him to send you back, because I have so many things to tell you about Him."

"Dear child," said the missionary, as he stooped' down and kissed her.

"And what are you going to do about this little lady, Sir Archibald?" demanded Mr Dennison.

"I scarcely know. My directions are, when found, to send her on to England by the next opportunity, so she will be your fellow-passenger, I suppose, Dennison. Meanwhile, get some one to look after her, and let her remain here."

"Sir Archibald," said Mr Williams, "I have a favour to ask you. Let me have the child to stay with me until the steamer comes in."

"Won't she be a great trouble?"

"Not in the least; and I have no one's wishes but my own to consult."

"But what does the little girl say herself? Tell me, my dear, would you rather go with this gentleman, or stay with me?"

"Go with this gentleman, sir," said Sybil, unhesitatingly."

"Well, that is candid, at all events," laughed Sir Archibald. "Then, Williams, I will trust her to your care, and depend on you for finding an attendant to look after her on the way to England, and seeing that she is properly fitted out for going there. It appears that, in the confusion, her boxes were reshipped on the Lady Gower, and the steamer is expected next week."

"I will do all you require, Sir Archibald, and am much obliged to you for the commission. And so now, I think, I will take my little friend home, for she must be sadly in need of rest and nourishment."

Mr Williams lifted Sybil in his arms, and after she had said good-bye to Sir Archibald and Mr Dennison, he placed her in the carriage.

"And now, my dear little girl, we are alone," he said with a smile, as they drove away together.

"No, sir, not alone," replied Sybil, "you forget Jesus." To this remark Mr Williams' only answer was a fond embrace. The seed which he had sown upon this tender soil was bringing forth fruit already. The little child had learned to realise (that is, not only to believe, but to be able to feel the truth of) God's actual and constant presence with us.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Mr Williams was living in a very pretty little cottage, close by the harbour, but he explained to Sybil that it did not all belong to him, but that he had agreed to take half of it, and to live there with his friend Mr Brewster, who was also a missionary, but who had gone up the country preaching for the present, and was not expected back for some weeks, and meanwhile, Mr Williams had the cottage to himself. There was Mr Brewster's bed-room and sitting-room on one side, and Mr Williams' bed-room and sitting-room on the other side, and that was all; for the kitchen and little house where the servants lived was built at the other end of the garden. A green verandah, covered with creepers, ran round the cottage, and shaded the windows from the sun, and before the door was a nice grass plot and beds of bright flowers -- for both Mr Brewster and Mr Williams were very fond of gardening.

Mr Brewster's rooms were very comfortably furnished, because he had lived so long at Cape Town, and had his books and pictures all about him; but Mr Williams' looked bare as yet, for he had not had time to unpack the cases he had brought with him by the Lady Gower. He was obliged to do so now, however, for Sybil was in a deplorable condition, and had nothing to change. Her white frock had been wetted through with the dew, and dirtied and crumpled by lying on the ground; her shoes were nearly off her feet, and her fair hair was matted and dusty.

Mr Williams had thought he could never bear to look at little Julia's frocks and shoes and pinafores again; but he unpacked them now almost without pain, so eager was he to befriend the poor child thrown upon his care. Sybil was so happy and excited, that she would have liked to be allowed to run about the garden and the cottage, and see all there was to be seen, but Mr Williams would not allow her to do so yet. There were two native servants belonging to the house -- a man Samuel, and his wife Anna; and Mr Williams called Anna, and told her to give the little girl a warm bath, and comb and brush out her hair, and then put her in Mr Brewster's bed (where she had to sleep), until a suit of clothes could be got ready for her to put on.

Sybil enjoyed the warm bath and the brushing of her hair very much, but she was so impatient at being put to bed, that Mr Williams was obliged to go and sit by her and talk to her, in order to keep her quiet. She was still full of the idea that Jesus had sent him to her, and he did not contradict it, for he fully believed himself that God had ordered events, so that they might be thrown together again; but he told Sybil what she had not known before, that he had always intended to remain at the Cape, and had arranged to live in that house with Mr Brewster before he started from India. He had been very sorry, Mr Williams said, to think that Sybil would go home to England without seeing him again; but he had prayed to God very much for her, and had asked Him to bless her and keep her safely; and now Sybil could see that God had heard that prayer and granted it, even beyond what he had asked, by giving them a whole week to spend together, before they parted.

And then Mr Williams spoke to her about the dangers she had passed through, and escaped; of the fever she might have caught, by being out in the sun and the night dew; of the animals, like jackals and hyenas and wild dogs, that might have injured her; of the thirst and hunger she would have felt if she had not been so quickly discovered; and he told her that it was God who had preserved her from all these miseries, and that she should be very grateful to Him and thank Him for His mercy. "And now, Sybil," he said, "tell me what made you think of running away from Mrs Barlow."

The child began her story, and went through it regularly from the date of her coming on shore to the time of her leaving the hotel; but the effort of telling it was evidently very great, and she shuddered so much as she spoke of Mrs Barlow beating her, and wept so heartily as she related the circumstance of Coolemah's dismissal, that Mr Williams was sorry he had broached the subject so soon.

"Don't think of it any more, dear child," he said soothingly, "I am sure that you were very unhappy, and very much frightened; but it is all past now, and it is not likely to happen again. You must try and forget it."

"Yes, sir! but poor Coolemah! she was so good to me, and it was not her fault. Oh, sir! I wish I could see Coolemah again."

"Perhaps you may see her, Sybil. You asked Jesus to send me to you, and He did send me. You must ask Him to send Coolemah, and if it is good for you (for you know Jesus only gives us what we ask Him, when He sees it will be for our good), He will send her also. But see, here is Anna coming with some nice clean clothes for you to put on, and whilst she is dressing you, I will go for a little walk. By the time I. come back, dinner will be ready, and I hope you will be ready for dinner."

Mr Williams' hope was realised, for when he returned the cloth was on the table, and a little girl, nice, clean, and neat, looking rather tired, but very happy, ran to meet him, and tell him she was "dreadfully hungry." "And Samuel says there is a little chicken for our dinner, and curry and rice, and pineapple tart; and it is all quite ready, and I am to sit close by your side. And I have picked some flowers for the middle of the table (Anna said I might), and put them in a tumbler, and they do look so pretty. Come and see!

Mr Williams looked at the child, standing before him in a blue and white striped frock, and could hardly speak. He knew that frock so well -- every stitch of it had been put in by the fingers of his dead wife, and his little Julia had worn it up to the day she had gone into mourning for her mother, and the sight of it brought the past too vividly before him. Sybil saw the altered expression, and thought she had done something wrong.

"Oh, sir! should I not have picked them? I am so sorry."

"No, no, dear! it is not that; you may pick as many flowers as you like. It was only the sight of my little Julia's frock -- but it was very foolish of me, and it is over now!"

Julia's frock! Sybil could hardly understand the connection between the frock and the foolishness at first, and stood silently looking down upon the garment in question. But suddenly it flashed upon her, and then she raised her eyes, full of solemn surprise, to Mr Williams' face.

"Then sir, do you want Julia to come back again?"

"My child, didn't you want your papa to come back again when first he left you?"

"Yes; but then I didn't know that he had gone to Jesus, and that he never could be sick again, and everything was happy there. You told me that, sir! And since you told me I have never cried for papa to come back -- only sometimes a little," she added in a lower voice, "that Jesus would come and take me to heaven too."

The missionary felt as though the child were rebuking him out of his own mouth.

"You are right, dear," he said, "quite right. It is wrong to wish, but still one cannot always help wishing."

"But does Julia wish it too, sir; does she want to come back again and wear these frocks?"

"No, no, Sybil! She is far too happy. Those who are so blessed as to live in Jesus' presence never want to see this earth again."

"And Jesus would not like Julia to come back either, would He?"

"No, dear; He loves His little lambs too well for that."

"Nor Julia's mamma!"

"Oh, no! she is happy too with her dear children."

"Only you wish it then, sir," persisted the child, as though she were puzzling out the question for herself.

"I was wrong, Sybil!" said Mr Williams, shortly. "I do not wish it. I would not have my little Julia back again in this miserable world for all that it contains. She is safe now from sin and sorrow, and it cannot be long ere we meet again."

"Then sir, we can be happy, can't we?" said little Sybil, "because when you look at my frock, it will remind you how happy Julia is too. And I daresay she is laughing, and playing with the other children at this very moment," continued the child, looking up in his face as though to comfort him, "or perhaps she is holding Jesus' hand, as I hold yours, and talking to Him about you."

"O Sybil!" cried Mr Williams, as he caught her in his arms, "your simplicity teaches me a lesson. Yes, dear child! we will be happy, since those we love are happy too; and let nothing fret us whilst we have hope of joining them again. And now, to make a good beginning, we will sit down to dinner together, and enjoy it very much."

And so they did; and Sybil, who had had nothing but oranges to eat since the evening before, was so hungry that she had first chicken, and then curry and rice, and then pine-apple tart, and thought them all the most delicious things she had ever tasted.

After dinner came the most delightful surprise. Mr Williams was told that some one wanted to speak to him; and he ordered Samuel to show the "some one" in. When next Sybil looked up, there was Coolemah smiling in the doorway.

She sprang from her chair like lightning, and rushed into her arms, and Coolemah was no less pleased to meet her little missy again. And loud was her indignation when Mr Williams repeated to her the story of Sybil's flight, and the manner in which Mrs Barlow had treated her before she ran away. She pressed the little girl again and again to her breast as she heard it, and tears of sympathy ran down her black cheeks.

"Well, ayah!" said Mr Williams presently, "what are you going to do next? I sent for you on purpose that I might hear."

"I not knowing, master. Missus turning me away so quickly, I got no place -- no home. Must stay here, I suppose, till finding some lady to take me back to Madras. Only, that very dear; soon I have no money."

"Would you like to go on to England, ayah, as you at first intended?"

"Very much, sir -- that best plan for me -- only where to find missus? Master know of lady who want ayah to go to England from this place?"

"Yes, ayah! I do," said Mr Williams, taking Sybil by the hand; "there is' a lady who is going to England next week by the steamer, and I have been commissioned to find a good, kind nurse to take care of her on the passage. Will you undertake to do so?"

"I taking care of little missy!" replied the ayah, with sparkling eyes. "Oh, master! never fear. I take very good care of my child all the way to England."

"Coolemah going with me!" cried Sybil. "How good of you, sir! Oh, how happy we shall be I Only you will not be there," she added presently, "or we should be happier. I wish that you were going too, sir."

"Perhaps I wish it also, Sybil; but my work and my duty lie here, and so it is best for me to remain. And we must always wish the best for our friends, little woman."

Sybil's face clouded over for a moment, but it was soon merry again. The idea of having Coolemah to herself all the voyage home, was too new and pleasant to be overlooked, and particularly as Mr Williams drew her attention to it again by saying -- 

"Well, ayah! if you agree to go to England with missy, I shall not look any further. And you had better come at once and wait upon her, for I shall want you to tell me what clothes she will require for the voyage home, as her boxes have gone on in the Lady Gower."

Coolemah promised, and withdrew at once to fetch her bundle of clothes, and the mat and pillow she slept on at night, and which the native servants always carry about with them, and Mr Williams took Sybil's hand and led her out into the garden. The sun had gone down by this time, and all was very silent, and calm, and peaceful.

"So Jesus did send Coolemah back to you as well as me, Sybil," he said presently. "How much He cares about His little children!"

Sybil looked up brightly.

"I was just thinking so, sir, I was thinking how quickly He hears. It was only just before we had dinner that I thought of asking Him to send Coolemah, and then I said it in a whisper, and as dinner is finished, lo, she comes! It is very wonderful!"

"You will find it more and more wonderful the longer you live, Sybil. But you will not expect Jesus to grant you everything you ask for. Some things that we want would be very hurtful for us. You will remember what I told you about His answering our prayers when they are for our good."

"Yes, sir; and that shows that Coolemah to go to England with me must be for my good, which makes it so pleasant, doesn't it?"

"Yes, dear; when we ask Jesus for anything, and are quite contented to leave Him to decide whether it is good or bad for us, and He sends it, it is very pleasant to receive it from His hands; but we should be ready to give it up again, if it pleases Him to take it back."

"It would be cross not to give it up again," said the child, thoughtfully. "Like the boys, when they teased me until I lent them my doll, and then hid it away so that I shouldn't find it. And then Jesus does so much -- He does everything. Sir! is there nothing that we can do for Jesus -- nothing to make Him happy?"

This was the very question to which Mr Williams had been trying to lead her.

"Oh yes! dear child," he said, "there is a great deal, but the best of all to do is to give Him ourselves."

"To give Jesus ourselves!" repeated Sybil. "But how can we do that? I thought you said we belonged to Him."

"So we do, Sybil; but by giving ourselves, I mean giving up our wills to Him-never judging for ourselves, but doing just as He requires us, whether we like it or no. He has put each of us in our own place. We do not arrange where we shall be born or live, or with whom. God fixes it all; and whether our lives and positions please us or not, we must do our best and be patient, because it is His will, and to submit to His will is the only return we have it in our power to make Him, for having died to save us from hell."

Sybil clasped her hands together.

"Then ought I to have stayed with Mrs Barlow?" she exclaimed in a voice of earnest inquiry.

"My dear little girl, this is a subject I had not intended to speak to you upon so soon, but as you ask the question, I will answer it. Strictly speaking, you were not doing right in running away from Mrs Barlow. It was by God's will you were placed under her charge, and though I have no doubt you were harshly treated, and very unhappy, it did not justify your leaving her in the way you did. Children are bound to obey those who are set over them, and Mrs Barlow was set over you for the time being. But you are very young and ignorant, and you were frightened, and hardly knew what you were doing, and therefore there are excuses to be made for you. Only, next time you are tempted to disobey your superiors, Sybil, or rebel against their authority, you must think of Jesus' goodness to you, and try to act as He would wish you to do."

"Do you think He is angry with me, sir?" demanded Sybil, sadly.

"I am sure He is not angry with you, darling; but He is waiting to hear you say that you are sorry if you have grieved Him. And you are sorry, Sybil, are you not?"

"I am indeed, sir; and I will tell Him so directly. I am sure I am sorry, because -- because" --

"Because what, Sybil?"

"Because I think I would -- yes! I am sure, sir, that if Jesus wished it, I would -- go back to Mrs Barlow and the boys. But oh! it would be so terrible," she said, with a face that had grown suddenly pale from the mere suggestion.

"And therefore He will not require it, dear," replied Mr Williams, as he patted the trembling little hand; "but if you really feel what you say, Sybil -- that you could give up your own will and your own pleasure for the sake of Jesus' will and Jesus' pleasure, you have learned the whole secret of a Christian life."

CHAPTER XXIV.

It was very pleasant to Sybil to wake the next morning in Mr Brewster's big bed, and to remember that she was under the same roof as Mr Williams, and had a long, happy day before her. At first she could not think where she was (you know it is always the way when one wakes in a strange place), but when she caught sight of Coolemah sleeping on her mat by the side of the bed, all was clear and plain again. Coolemah heard her little missy stir, and was wide awake in a moment.

"Come, missy!" she said, as she lifted Sybil off the bed, "ayah give you nice cold bath, and then we go walk this fine morning time."

"Wait a minute, ayah," replied the little girl, "and let me speak to Jesus first. He is my best Friend, you know, and the gentleman says we should always speak to Him the first thing in the morning and the last thing at night."

Coolemah stood by quietly, whilst Sybil knelt down and folded her hands and closed her eyes, and said her innocent prayer aloud.

"Dear Jesus, I am so glad to be awake again and see the sun shining, and to be going for a nice walk with Coolemah. Thank you so much for keeping me safe through the night; and I hope I shall be a good girl all to-day. Please, Jesus, don't go away for one minute, for fear I shouldn't be good. And I love you so much for being my Friend! Amen."

Sybil stopped when she had said so far, but after a minute's pause went on again -- 

"Please be Coolemah's Friend as well as mine. Amen."

"Why missy say that?" demanded the ayah, when Sybil had risen from her knees.

"Because I love you, ayah, and I want Jesus to be your Friend as well as mine."

"What good that doing?" demanded the ayah, curiously.

"Why, ayah, you told me you had trouble because you had left your little children in Madras, and they might get sick or die. Now if Jesus is your Friend, you know, He can keep them quite safe, or if they do die, like Julia did, He can take them up to His beautiful heaven, where they will always be well and happy. Wouldn't it be nice to think they were quite well and happy, ayah?"

"Ah, missy! I not knowing that place. I not understanding!" replied Coolemah.

Sybil looked distressed.

"O ayah! I wish you knew, but I will tell you," she said, brightening up. "As we go home to England, I will teach you the things which the gentleman has taught me, and then you will be as glad as I am."

And all the time that Coolemah was bathing and dressing her, Sybil talked of Jesus; of His wonderful birth in the manger, and His still more wonderful death upon the cross, until the black nurse became quite interested in the story, and said her missy was very clever to remember it all.

As soon as Sybil was ready, she ran out to greet Mr Williams before she went for her morning walk, and found him sitting in the verandah, drinking tea with Mr Harper Jackson.

"Holloa! my little girl, and so we meet again," said the latter gentleman, as he turned and saw her. "Well, you are a nice young lady, to go running away from the hotel, and setting half the town running after you, and turning all our heads grey with fright lest we should never find you again. Come here, and tell me what you have to say for yourself."

Sybil was not shy with Mr Jackson, for she had none but pleasant recollections of Fredericsburg; but she remembered that he was Mrs Barlow's cousin, and hardly knew at first whether to take his words in jest or earnest.

She slipped her hand into Mr Williams' for protection before, stammering a little, and blushing very much, she answered -- 

"I am very sorry, sir, if it was wrong. Mr Williams says it was, but I didn't think, I was so frightened. I hope you are not very angry, sir; I did not mean to give you trouble."

"Pooh, nonsense!" said Mr Jackson, as he pulled the child away from Mr Williams' side, and placed her on his knee; "do you think I meant it? I was only joking, Sybil. Not but what you were a very silly little girl, -- but least said, soonest mended. And now, will you come to Rosen Hall with me, and stay with Fanny and Susy and Bessy. They are all longing to see you again."

"Leave Mr Williams, sir?" exclaimed Sybil, with a comical look of fright.

"Not if you don't wish it, my dear. You shall make your own choice."

"I should like to go and see them all again, sir, if you will let me, but I would rather live here."

"All right!" said Mr Jackson, though he looked a little vexed about it. "Then run and tell your ayah to get you ready, for I will take you back with me at once." And as Sybil disappeared, he said to Mr Williams, "What have you done to fascinate that little being, Williams? Mrs Jackson and I should have been so glad to have her while she stays at Cape Town, not only in order to do what we can to make up for Mrs Barlow's behaviour, but because her father was an old friend of mine."

"I am sorry for your disappointment," replied Mr Williams, "but I cannot say I am sorry for myself. She is a most interesting child, and especially so to me, who have lost a daughter of about the same age. Don't grudge me her company, Mr Jackson, you have so many."

"Say no more about it, Williams; I am glad she repays your kindness. So here she is, ready to start. I will send her back at five o'clock, as that is your dinner-hour; good-bye." And Mr Jackson lifted Sybil into the carriage that was waiting for them, and drove away.

Mr Williams felt quite lonely without his little companion, though he would not indulge the feeling, but occupied himself all day about the house and the garden, and was very busy, in his shirt and trousers, unpacking his boxes, and hanging up his book-cases and pictures, when Sybil, breathless with excitement rushed into the room. On one arm she held a basket of fruit and presents, and in her hands was a white Persian kitten, with a red ribbon tied round its neck.

"It is my own, sir! my very own! did you ever see such a beauty? Fanny Jackson's cat has three, and she gave me my choice -- wasn't it kind? And I may take it on board- ship to play with all the way to England. And Mrs Jackson has given me picture-books, and such a large wax doll; and she is going to get me a workbox, that Coolemah may teach me how to work. But I like the pussy better than anything; and they wanted to name her, but I wouldn't let them, because I want you to choose her name for me. And oh! I am so happy, I don't know what to do!" and little Sybil looked very much as though she were going to cry. Mr Williams took the excited child and the kitten both upon his lap, and tried to quiet them.

"This is a very pretty pussy," he said, "and I do not think Miss Jackson could have given you anything you would have enjoyed more. You will always have some one to play with now, Sybil. And the doll, too, is a real beauty. So you have enjoyed yourself very much?"

"Oh, so much, sir! -- Rosen Hall is such a beautiful place, and they were all so kind. And they asked me to go there another day, but I said I couldn't unless" --

"Unless what, dear?"

"Unless you will go too, sir."

"I -- my child? What should a quiet, stupid old man like me do amongst a lot of gay young people; and what difference could it make to your enjoyment?"

"A very great difference, sir. So many times today I wanted to speak to you, and you were not there. So I would rather stay with you than go again, unless you will come too."

"Well, dear, we will see about it," replied Mr Williams, quietly, though he was much pleased at this proof of the child's affection; "but here is Coolemah, ready to relieve you of all your riches. Would you not like to go with her?"

"Coolemah may take the doll and the fruit and the picture-books, all but my pussy," said Sybil, as she hugged the kitten in her arms, "but I would rather stay with you. Let me help you, sir; I am very strong. Please let me unpack these books, and give them to you one by one."

"No, my child; you have had enough to do today, and so, for the matter of that, have I. So I will make myself tidy, and then we will have our dinner, and you shall tell me of all that you have seen and heard during our separation."

And with her kitten (the name of which it was happily decided before bed-time should be Fatima) in her arms, Sybil spent a very happy evening, recounting all the pleasures she had experienced at Rosen Hall to Mr Williams, whilst he carefully led the child's thoughts up from the gifts to the Gracious Hand that had given them to her, until her little breast glowed with gratitude.

From that evening Sybil and her kind friend were inseparable; for though she spent another long day at Rosen Hall before she started, she steadfastly refused to go without him, and he was obliged to yield to her entreaties, and those of Mr Jackson.

Hour by hour she was his little companion, talking and listening to his instructions, and the child's heart unfolded to the glorious truths the missionary taught her, perhaps all the more readily because they had not been presented until she was old enough to understand their worth.

But you must not suppose that they always talked in a grave and solemn manner, and never laughed or had any fun together, for that would be a great mistake. By nature Mr Williams was lively and full of nonsense; and though the trouble he had passed through made him at times serious, he was generally cheerful, and often as ready to laugh and play with Sybil as she was with him.

And now that the unnatural weight of care and sense of loneliness had been removed from the child's mind, she could be as merry as other children, and began to play off all sorts of roguish innocent little tricks upon her ayah, to Coolemah's great delight.

As soon as he considered her sufficiently rested, Mr Williams allowed the little girl to help him to unpack his boxes and arrange his rooms, which she thought a great treat; and they had many a pleasant talk together, as Mr Williams, hammer and nails in hand, walked about, hanging up his shelves and brackets, and Sybil, perched on one of the empty cases with a cloth in her hand, dusted each article as he put it away.

Long talks about Julia, from the time she was a baby, when she would kneel down, even before she could speak, and put her little hands together, and pretend that she was saying her prayers, to the day she told the doctor not to be afraid to tell her she was dying, because she was not a bit afraid herself. Yet they were not sad talks, quite the contrary, for in her days of health Julia had been a very happy little girl, and her father often caught himself laughing with Sybil over some funny anecdote of the tricks she used to play him and her mamma. For Mr Williams saw that Sybil's life had been quite sufficiently saddened already, and so, after the first recital, he carefully avoided speaking of Julia's sickness or death to her, unless it were in allusion to the perfect peace and calm, with which his little daughter had herself contemplated them.

But Sybil loved the subject, and often recurred to it, and that other greater subject of Jesus' death and burial. She would sit with the picture of the Crucifixion, which had hung in Mr Williams' cabin on board the Lady Gower, in her hand for half an hour at a time, asking the most searching questions, and going over the details again and again.

In a few days she seemed to know every incident of His earthly life, from the moment He came, a tiny helpless baby to His Blessed Mother's arms, to the day He was delivered up, through the treachery of Judas, to a cruel and shameful death.

His love, His meekness, and His long-suffering patience, the miracles He wrought, the hardships He underwent, and the ingratitude He met with, these were topics of never-ceasing interest to Sybil Ransford, and hour by hour the child seemed to grow in grace, and the love of her Lord and Master.

Then Mr Williams read the history to her from God's own Word, the Bible; and when Sunday came round, he took her to the English Church.

Sybil was deeply interested, a new world seemed to have opened before her; she began to wonder in her simplicity why children were ever naughty or grown-up people unhappy, since Jesus was grieved at the one and had promised to relieve the other. But Mr Williams explained to her that it was sin that made all the unhappiness in this world, and that even those who knew of Jesus, and loved Him, could never be truly happy here, not only because of the sin they saw in others, but that they were always fighting against it in themselves.

"Then is no one good?" said Sybil, "not even you?"

"No one is good," replied Mr Williams, "and certainly not me. And the more we love Jesus, the less good we appear to ourselves. Only He takes our faulty actions, if they are done for love of Him, and purifies them in His blood until they are fit for the acceptance of His Holy Father. So you see, Sybil, that the best things we are capable of doing, the best prayers we can pray, the best thoughts we can think, the best love we can show to others, would all avail us nothing unless Jesus had chosen to die, because without they are sanctified by Jesus' blood, God's eyes are too pure to look on them."

"And when they are sanctified?" said Sybil.

"When they are sanctified, they are no longer our prayers and our thoughts, but Jesus' prayers and Jesus' thoughts, and therefore His Father can accept them from Him. And so it is that if we pray in truth, our prayers cannot fail, because God cannot refuse the prayers which His own Son offers to Him."

"When I talk to Jesus, does He take my own words and say them over again to God, sir?"

"Yes; when you pray from your heart, and mean all you say."

"Then God hears Jesus speaking my words?"

"Yes."

"And does He know they are my words?"

"Of course, dear."

"Then when I pray, Jesus prays; and when God answers Jesus, He answers me?"

"Exactly, Sybil."

"It is just the same as though I were God's own child, only Jesus is between?"

"Yes, Sybil, you are God's own child, and Jesus is between. He is your Mediator, which means one that goes between. You pray, and Jesus mediates that God may hear your prayer. And this office of Mediator He bought with His own blood, by His death upon the cross, because He loved you so."

"Why doesn't everybody remember this, and be happy?" inquired Sybil.

"Ah, dear! I cannot answer that question. Everybody might be happy if they would only choose to be so; but they will not believe, they will not understand; their eyes are blinded, that they cannot see the happiness waiting for them. It is one of our duties, Sybil, to pray for all those people who will not pray for themselves."

"I will pray," said little Sybil, "because if Jesus had not sent you, sir, to tell me all about Himself, I should have been unhappy too!"

CHAPTER XXV.

The days flew by fast (a great deal too fast Sybil thought), until the very last day came before the one on which the homeward-bound steamer was expected to arrive at Cape Town.

Mrs Harper Jackson had taken the trouble of providing Sybil's wardrobe off Mr Williams' hands, of which he was very glad, and now it was nearly completed, and the white frocks and petticoats, and all the other articles that are necessary to dress a little lady, lay in neat piles in the verandah of Rosen Hall, just as they had been turned out by the hands of the clever native tailors.

English children must think it sounds very strange to hear of a tailor sewing a hem, or darning a stocking, or whipping a frill. When your father wants a new coat, or waistcoat, or pair of trousers, he goes to a tailor and orders it; but if your mother requires a silk dress made for herself, or a white frock for the baby, she sends for a dressmaker, or a workwoman.

In England, men only sew the hard kinds of work; they do not meddle with the laces and muslins and ribbons -- their fingers are too clumsy and stiff.

But in India, and at the Cape of Good Hope, the black women cannot work, except in a very few instances; they do not know how to handle a needle and thread, and the men do all the needlework instead. The native men in India work beautifully; they can embroider muslin dresses and cambric handkerchiefs, and make anything if you give them a pattern; and every lady who goes out there has a tailor in her employ, who sits cross-legged all day in the verandah with a basket of work by his side. It would make you laugh to see the tailors holding one end of the seam they are sewing between their bare toes, to keep it straight and tight for them to work upon. But they work very quickly and neatly. So when Mrs Jackson had decided how many frocks and other articles Sybil would require for the month's journey home, she sent to the town for twelve tailors, and they all set to work at once, and soon furnished the little girl with a new wardrobe. And now the box was bought and partly packed; and the workbox for Sybil and the basket in which pussy was to sleep on board the steamer, were provided, and the child began to realise the fact that she would soon be parted again from her kind friend the missionary.

On that last day but one, who should walk into Mr Williams' verandah but Mr Dennison, the gentleman who had gone in search of and found Sybil in the orange-grove. It was not the first time he had. been to see the child, for he was going home to England in the same steamer with her; but to-day he came with a message from the Governor, Sir Archibald, to ask if she were quite ready to start, and to say he would take her on board with him in the Government boat, when the steamer arrived.

Mr Dennison was quite a young man, of not more than two or three-and-twenty, and held the appointment of aide-de-camp to the Governor. He had not been very long at the Cape, and in the course of conversation, Mr Williams asked if it were illness that was taking him back to England so soon.

He coloured, and for some moments did not reply; when he did, it was to stammer out a few words about being rather homesick, and not caring much for the country, and thinking he had earned a holiday.

Mr Williams laughed.

"You have been out here just a year, have you not?" he said. "You should have tried exile, as I have, for thirty years, Mr Dennison, and then talk about having earned a holiday."

"Have you left England all that time?"

"I have indeed."

"And are not thinking of returning?"

"I have nothing left to return for; the friends I parted with are gone before me, and I have lost all that I possessed in this country. I should hardly know what to do with myself in England; here I can still be of use."

"And yet you are happy?" said the young man, incredulously.

"Quite happy, my dear young friend; but not on account of what this world affords me."

Mr Dennison turned away and whistled loudly to his dog, who was careering all over Mr Williams' flower-beds.

"Is he going to England with us?" inquired Sybil of Mr Dennison, as she looked with something like trepidation on the large kangaroo-dog which came bounding up at his master's call.

"He is not, I am sorry to say; but why do you ask? You are not afraid of him?"

"No, only for my pussy; I think pussy is very much afraid; she is sticking her claws into my neck most dreadfully."

"Then I and my dog had better take ourselves off," replied Mr Dennison, laughing; "and next time you see me, Sybil, I shall have said good-bye for a long time to my poor Hero," and lifting his hat, the young man passed out of the garden.

"What a fine face he has!" remarked Mr Williams, thoughtfully; "more than that, it is a good face. Are you not glad that gentleman is going home with you, Sybil? Do you not think he looks very kind?"

But the child did not answer. Her eyes were fixed in the direction of the retreating figure of Mr Dennison.

"Why do you not speak, dear? What are you thinking of?"

"Of him, sir. Why is he so troubled?"

"Troubled, Sybil? who says he is?"

"I can see it in his face."

"You funny little mortal! what can have put such an idea into your head. I see nothing but a fine, handsome, careless, light-hearted young man, who is more independent, perhaps, than is good for him, and can indulge in a holiday oftener than is necessary."

"Oh no, sir, not careless!" said the child, earnestly, as she turned towards Mr Williams, "nor lighthearted."

"But does he not laugh and joke like other people?"

"Sometimes; sometimes even more than other people, perhaps; but when he is not joking, he looks, oh! so sad. I have often wished to ask him why he looks so sad, sir!"

"Dennison sad!" repeated the missionary, "that is quite a new idea to me, Sybil; but perhaps you are right. There is much trouble in this world, little one, and it spares neither young nor old."

"No, sir; but you have trouble, and yet you look gay. I have never seen your face look like Mr Dennison's face."

"You have often seen me very grave, Sybil."

"Yes, grave, but not miserable. When you asked Mr Dennison why he was going home to England, sir, he looked miserable. And when he was whistling so loudly to Hero, his mouth was all pulled down."

"You are a keen observer, Sybil," said Mr Williams, smiling, "we shall all have to take greater care of our faces if you begin to read them so closely. But what are we to do with ourselves this last evening? Everything is ready for to-morrow, even down to the big Bible being packed up in paper; so we have nothing but our own pleasure to consult. Shall we go and say good-bye to Sir Archibald, or pay a last visit to Rosen Hall?"

"I think we had better go to Sir Archibald, sir, because he was so kind in letting me stay with you; and Mr Jackson is coming on board the steamer to-morrow to see me off. Oh, that Bible! how I wish that I could read it!"

It had become a grief to little Sybil that she must wait till she arrived in England before she could learn to read the Bible with which Mr Williams had presented her. She was so anxious to learn all about the life and death and sayings of her great Friend, and to be able to read them for herself and Coolemah. But reading is not learned in a day, and Mr Williams knew it would be useless to attempt to teach her, and so all he could do was to give her the volume, trusting she might find some kind friend on board the steamer who would occasionally read it to her.

"Do you think Mr Dennison will read to me, sir?" inquired Sybil, as they set out to walk to the Governor's house.

Mr Williams almost smiled. The idea of the apparently gay and careless young aide-de-camp with the Bible in his hands appeared so unlikely a one, but he repressed the feeling.

"Perhaps so, dear; but you mustn't tease him, remember."

"Oh no, I won't tease him!" replied little Sybil, sagely; "I shall only ask him when he reads the Bible (because, of course, he does read the Bible every day), to be so good as to let me and Coolemah sit somewhere near, and hear him. That won't be teasing, will it, sir? and I think Mr Dennison looks too good-natured to keep his Bible all to himself."

The visit to Sir Archibald was paid, and Sybil and Mr Williams returned home to pass their last evening together.

I shall not give you a long account of their parting the next day, which you may be sure was a sad one, for there has been quite enough sadness in this story already.

The steamer arrived at her proper time, and Mr Williams and Sybil and Coolemah went on board of her in the Government boat, with Mr Dennison and Sir Archibald, who was a relation of Mr Dennison's, and took a great interest in him.

Mr Williams was glad that Sybil should start in company instead of alone, for it was far better that, if possible, she should restrain her tears; and the little girl stood rather in awe of Sir Archibald, with his fierce-looking grey eyebrows and moustaches, though she had no need to do so. His presence, and the necessity for keeping a tight hold on Fatima, who miaulled sadly when she found herself at sea, and made desperate attempts to jump over the boat's side, kept Sybil's mind from dwelling too much on the parting before her; and so they reached the deck of the steamship Cashmere before she had hardly had time to realise that the moment was come to say good-bye.

"Farewell, Dennison!" said Sir Archibald, as he wrung the hand of his young aide-de-camp; "a prosperous voyage to you, and a speedy cure. There's nothing like salt water for a case like yours."

"Don't, Sir Archibald!" replied Mr Dennison, quickly, but the next minute he was returning the grasp with energy. "Good-bye! and thank you for all your kindness to me, of which this leave of absence is not the least."

"Don't mention it, Dennison; look well after your little charge, and do not lose sight of her until you deliver her into the hands of Lady Newlands."

"Certainly not, sir; I look upon Miss Ransford as my especial care."

"You will be well looked after, my dear little girl," said Mr Williams, with a sad smile; "we leave you in good hands. Ayah, you will be sure not to forget all I have told you about your little missy."

"Master, never fearing; I love child like my own. I take good care of her all the way to England."

"Then there is nothing left, dear little one, but to say good-bye to you," said the missionary, as he held out his arms.

Sybil flew into them, dropping Fatima on the deck in her excitement.

"No, no!" she cried, "I can't, I can't! Take me back again, sir! -- pray, take me back!"

"Sybil," replied Mr Williams in a low voice, as he kissed the tearful face which was pressed against his own, "it is Jesus' will that we should part. Be good, and do as He would wish you."

"I -- am -- good," whispered the child, as she resolutely passed her pocket-handkerchief across her eyes, and swallowed down her sobs; "I will be good."

"God bless you!" said the missionary, "and give you strength through life to conquer your own will for the sake of His!"

Then he kissed Sybil very gravely several times over, and placed her on the deck.

"Look at poor pussy, Sybil; she is so frightened, she has run under that coil of rope for shelter. If you do not go and get her out, you may lose her in this confusion. Ayah, help your little missy to get the kitten back again."

And by the time that Fatima was once more safe in her mistress's arms, Mr Williams had slipped down the gangway, and all they saw of him was a dark figure standing in a boat, and waving his handkerchief in the direction of the Cashmere.

Sybil had a good cry when she found her friend was really gone; but Mr Dennison took her and pussy on his knee, and talked so kindly to her, pointing out everything he fancied might amuse her, that she was smiling again before her tears were dry.

It was a very different way of starting to that which she had experienced on the Lady Gower.

CHAPTER XXVI.

The motion of a steamer is very different from that of a sailing vessel, and before long poor Sybil was almost as sick as she had been on board the Lady Gower.

A sailing vessel rides over the waves, and swings backwards and forwards like a rocking-horse; but a steamer cuts through them, and the resistance which the water makes to her engines causes the ship to plunge and tremble as though a strong hand had got hold of her, and were giving her a good shake every now and then. They are neither of them pleasant motions to such people as are unaccustomed to them and Sybil thought the Cashmere a very disagreeable place, indeed, for the first four-and-twenty hours she was in her. Still the sea-sickness was not nearly so hard to bear as it had been before, for she had Coolemah to look after and care for her, and Sybil would have been a very ungrateful little girl to be discontented with the attentions of her ayah, who never moved from the side of her berth, except for the purpose of getting her an orange, or something nice to drink, or cool water to wash her face and hands. Sybil and Coolemah had not the cabin to themselves, as they had had on board the Lady Gower. There were two other berths in it; and from the one over Sybil's head came every now and then a little chirping, discontented voice which told her it was occupied. As soon as she was well enough to think of anybody but herself, she became anxious to learn by whom.

"Ayah, is there another little girl in the berth up there?"

"No, missy, a little boy. Poor little gentleman! very sick indeed."

"Oh, I am so sorry! I wish I could see him and speak to him. Could he hear me, ayah, if I spoke from here?"

"No, missy, child too sick to talk to you now; better wait till both well, then can play on deck together."

Presently a gentleman came into the cabin -- a gentleman who seemed anxious and worried as he looked into the berth above Sybil's head.

"Well, my little boy," he said, "how are you now. No better? Don't you think you could eat a little bit of chicken if papa brought it to you?"

There was no answer to this, except a little fretful cry.

"Don't cry, Edward; that won't do any good. Come, try to be a brave boy; it will soon be over, and you will feel quite well again."

"I want mamma," whined the child.

"Yes, I know you do, but poor mamma can't come to you; she is so sick she cannot raise her head from her pillow. But she is very anxious to hear that her little boy is making the best of things. Come, Edward, try to drink some lemonade; it will do you good."

"I can't," said the child.

The poor gentleman looked quite distressed.

"I don't know what to do with him," he said, half to himself and half to the ayah. "He will make himself really ill if he is so obstinate. And his poor mother is quite incapable of rising from her berth. If he would only try to eat a few mouthfuls. The dinner is just coming up, and I am sure he would feel better after it."

"Come, little master, be good boy," said Coolemah, coaxingly.

"Go away!" replied Edward, hiding his face in his hands.

"Sir," asked little Sybil, "do you think I could do any good?"

"You, my dear!" exclaimed the gentleman, with surprise; "you are ill yourself."

"Not very ill, sir; indeed I feel almost well again now, and I think I could eat some chicken. Now if ayah were to get a very nice plate of chicken, and you were to put Edward into my berth, don't you think he might eat some with me?"

"Edward, do you hear what this kind little girl says? Will you come down and lie in her berth, and help her to eat some of her dinner?"

"Yes," said Edward, "I will."

So his papa took him in his arms, and placed him beside Sybil. What a poor, pale little face he had! it was like the face of an old man, wrinkled and worn; and such thin, bird-like arms! Sybil's generous heart warmed towards the fragile-looking child directly.

"Poor Edward!" she said, soothingly; "it is very hard to be sick, isn't it; but you will soon be better. I have come all the way from India, and I know what it is."

"Thank you, my dear," said the gentleman, as he watched the children kiss each other; "you are a very good, kind little girl. But where is your mamma? is she also too sick to come to you?"

"My mamma is not here, sir; she is dead," replied Sybil, simply.

"Ah, poor child! you are then motherless."

"No, sir, not motherless; that means, to have no mother; my mamma is in heaven, with Jesus and the angels, -- Mr Williams says so."

"What a strange child!" said the gentleman. "True, my dear, you are right. And now, what am I to send you in for dinner?"

"Chicken, please sir, and everything that is good. Edward shall lie on my pillow, and I will sit up. Yes, ayah, I am quite able to sit up to-day; it does not even make my head swim, and then I can look after Edward, and feed him. He shall be my baby, and I will be his mamma; just till his mamma is well again, you know."

The little boy seemed quite willing to be made a baby of. His pale cheeks flushed, and his dull eyes brightened, as he listened to Sybil's playful talk; and when Coolemah brought in the plate of chicken, and his new friend commenced to feed him as he lay, he eat every morsel she put into his mouth.

"It is very sad that your mamma is sick, Edward, because she would so much like to see you eating this chicken. I think both our mammas would like very much to see us sitting here together, eating our dinner and making friends."

"But your mamma is dead," said the boy.

"Yes, but she can hear me and see me all the same. Your mamma is only in the next cabin, yet she can't see or hear us, because there is a wooden wall between; but my mamma is in heaven, and can do everything much better than she could do down here."

"Heaven is ever so far away," said Edward.

"Oh no!" replied Sybil, quickly, "heaven is everywhere; else how could the angels be in heaven, and yet look after us?"

The children continued chattering to one another about everything that came into their heads, until the funny little Edward had made, almost unknown to himself, a very tolerable meal, and was looking ten times better than he had done before it.

"A little piece of this pudding, Edward; yes, do!" coaxed Sybil at the last. "You will never get strong enough to get up and nurse your poor mamma unless you eat as much as ever you can. See! there is my naughty pussy going to eat it if you don't. Go away, Fatima! you are a very greedy cat; you have not been sea-sick once, and yet you want to take away poor Edward's dinner from him -- I won't allow it."

The gentleman came in as soon as dinner was concluded, and was quite surprised to see the change in his little boy.

"Why, Edward!" he exclaimed, "I really think I may carry you in to see mamma. Would you like to come?"

"Yes," replied the child; and then his father wrapped him in a warm dressing-gown, and carried him off into another cabin. For the moment, he had forgotten Sybil. The little girl laid her head against her ayah's breast, and sighed.

"It must be very nice to have a mamma, Coolemah, -- of course I know that my mamma is alive and happy, and I ought to be happy too; but it isn't quite the same thing; is it, ayah?"

"No, missy, quite other thing," replied the ayah.

"It must be so warm and comfortable to have a live mamma to touch and feel, like I used to touch dear papa. It is very cold to be an orphan, ayah."

"Come, missy! mustn't talk about such things; all right when missy get to England, and find plenty grandmammas and uncles and aunts to love her. Everybody happy in England."

"And in heaven," said Sybil, thoughtfully. "Heaven would-be more a home to me than England. Ayah, my own dear papa is there."

"Some day missy going there too," said Coolemah, "but must go England first. How missy feeling now. Dennison Sahib very good gentleman -- been three times to cabin door to-day to ask if he could get anything to do missy good."

"Mr Dennison been asking after me!" cried Sybil, starting up. "O ayah! do dress me, and let me go on deck! I want so much to see Mr Dennison again."

It had always been her intention to ask the young aide-de-camp about reading the Bible the first time she found herself alone with him; and as soon as the customary greetings were over, she rushed child-like to the attack.

"Oh, sir! I wanted so much to see you! I have such a favour to ask of you. I can't read."

Mr Dennison thought at first that she wanted him to teach her.

"Well, my dear child," he said, "I am very sorry to hear it, but I don't see how I can help you. We shall be at home in a month, and then I have no doubt you will be taught everything that you ought to know."

"Oh! but, sir, you can help me very much indeed, if you will be so good. You can read to me."

The young man laughed.

"You queer little mortal! You would not be able to understand one-quarter of the books I am in the habit of reading; and a game of romps with the other children would do you twice the good."

"I can understand the Bible, sir. I used to understand very well when Mr Williams read. And where it is difficult you could explain it to me. And to Coolemah also, for I want Coolemah to hear it too."

"The Bible, child? what are you talking of?"

"Of my Bible, sir. Oh! it is such a nice one; Mr Williams gave it me, but I will lend it you, if you will promise to take great care of it. Mr Williams said that as I can't read it myself yet, perhaps some lady on board the Cashmere would read it for me; but I would rather hear you read it than any lady, because I know you, and we are friends."

Mr Dennison looked perplexed. It was the last request he had expected his little charge to make.

"Can't your ayah read, my dear?" he said, presently, hardly knowing what he said.

"My ayah, sir? why, she is not a Christian, poor thing! and it is because I want her so much to be a Christian, and to learn all about Jesus, that she may teach her little black children when she gets back to Madras, that I asked you to let her come and listen too. You will let Coolemah come, will you not, sir? and we will both be so quiet that you will not know we are there."

Still Mr Dennison gave no answer.

"We will come at any time you like," said Sybil, wistfully. "When you are going to read it for yourself, if that will do."

Then he turned and saw the child's great grey eyes fixed pleadingly upon him.

"Look here, Sybil," he said. "Of course I'll read to you if you wish it, but you needn't go and tell everybody on board ship that I said so. If you will let me know before you go to bed, I will go down to your cabin and read you a chapter, or you can come to mine; which shall it be?"

"Oh! thank you, sir, so much. I said I was sure you would do it; and please, would you come to our cabin, because then Edward can hear it too."

"And who is Edward?" demanded Mr Dennison, rather alarmed at the rapid manner in which his audience was increasing.

"Only a little boy who sleeps in the berth above mine, and is very sick."

"Very well; then Edward and Coolemah and you will make three, so don't ask in any more of the ship's company to listen to my reading."

"Don't you wish people to know you read the Bible?" said Sybil, innocently.

The young man reddened.

"Oh, yes! of course, my dear; every one reads it. However, send your ayah to say when you are ready, and I will be sure and come."

The little girl kissed and thanked him, and at the appointed hour he walked into the cabin. Sybil and Edward were already in their white nightclothes, gazing with earnest eyes over the sides of their berths; the Bible was placed in Mr Dennison's hands, and Coolemah seated herself quietly on the floor.

"And now, what am I to read?" said the young man, nervously, as he turned the volume about.

"Something about Jesus, please," replied Sybil, "about His being born in the stable, with the oxen standing by, or about His being lost when His mother took Him on a journey. No, no; it is not so near the end of the book as that, I am sure; it is more towards the middle. Can't you find it, sir?"

"In a minute," said Mr Dennison, as he fumbled over the leaves.

"Perhaps you know it well enough to say without the words," suggested Sybil.

But he made no reply to this, and finding the place at last, read to the children the account of their Saviour's birth and early childhood. As he was in the midst of it, the cabin door opened, and Edward's papa put in his head; Mr Dennison jumped up as though he had been shot.

"Come in!" he cried. "I am just going."

"Oh, don't go yet!" pleaded Sybil. "Please finish the story. Read to where they found Him in the Temple."

Edward's papa looked at Mr Dennison's red face, and guessed the cause of his confusion. He came up to him, and laid his hand upon his arm.

"Go on, young sir," he said, kindly, "finish your work of love, and never be ashamed of being detected in following the example of Him who said, 'Feed my lambs.'"

At these words, Mr Dennison sat down again and finished the chapter.

"Thank you, dear," whispered Sybil, caressingly, as he stooped down to kiss and bid her good night. "You read very nicely, but so fast. Poor Coolemah will never be able to understand if you don't read slower.''

"I will read slower to-morrow evening, Sybil. I will be a very good boy, and do everything you tell me."

"I like you so much," continued the child, holding him with both arms round the neck. "Kiss me again, sir, please!"

"Don't call me 'Sir,' Sybil; call me 'Hubert.'"

"Oh, that will be nice!" said Sybil, "yes, I like that, it sounds so friendly. And it is such a pretty name. If I had a brother, I should like him to be called by that name."

"Then call me 'brother Hubert,' and you shall be my little sister, Sybil. Good night, little sister, and pleasant dreams to you."

"Kiss Edward too," murmured Sybil, "because his mamma is sick, and cannot come to him."

Rather unwillingly, Mr Dennison performed the extra duty required of him.

"How good God is, ayah!" said Sybil, when he had left the cabin. "You see, when He takes away papas and mammas, He sends brothers and friends instead of them. Mr Williams is my friend, and now Mr Dennison is to be my brother. It is a very nice arrangement. That is how we shall be in heaven, ayah; all friends, and no quarrelling. And did you listen to the story of Jesus in the manger? You must always listen when brother Hubert reads. It will do you good. And I am glad he kissed Edward!" with which words the sleepy eyes closed, and the generous little heart was hushed in rest.

"Sweet missy, but very strange child," thought the ayah, as she folded up Sybil's garments, and put them away. "Same like grown woman; I never understanding half she say."

CHAPTER XXVII.

Little Edward did not get over his sickness so easily as Sybil. She was running about from one end of the Cashmere to the other, and making the acquaintance of every one on board, before he was able to leave his bed. But she did not forget her feeble little friend. She never received an orange or a cake, but she flew to divide it with Edward; and many an hour which she would rather have passed in the sunshine did she spend perched up on the side of his narrow berth, whilst she chattered away of everything she had seen and heard on deck.

No one who had seen Sybil come on board the Lady Gower at Madras, could have recognised her in the bright, intelligent child who was a favourite with all the passengers on the Cashmere. The sea voyage had renovated her health, her cheeks had lost their pallor, her eyes the dull and weary look that use to characterise them; she had grown stout and rosy and cheerful.

And yet there was something very unlike other children in Sybil Ransford. There was a dignified gravity even in her most cheerful moments, and a solemn far-away look in her clear eyes, that made even the mothers on board say they hardly knew how to talk to her, or on what subject.

She often played and romped with her companions; her light laugh would be heard echoing from one side of the vessel to the other; and yet she would leave her game as suddenly as she had joined it, to fling her head down with a sigh in her ayah's lap.

"Coolemah! what are the names of your little children? Tell me over again," she said one day, pleadingly.

"Well, missy, there's Ramasawmy, he's very big boy now, much bigger than you; and then there's Venketasawmy, he's little boy, same size as Master Edward; and then there's Papah, she nice little girl, only two years old, can just walk about and eat rice; and that's all, missy."

"Ramasawmy and Venketasawmy and Papah!" said Sybil; "three children, and they know nothing about Jesus. He's their Friend, the same as mine, and yet no one ever told them so. Ayah, hasn't anybody ever said a word to them about it?"

"No, missy; how any one saying? They only poor black children. No one talk to them, no one teach them."

"And there are such lots of English people in Madras!" said Sybil, wonderingly. "O ayah! you must learn! you must be a Christian! you mustn't go back to India till you can teach Ramasawmy and Venketasawmy and Papah all about Jesus!"

"Ayah learning if missy teach," replied Coolemah. "Ayah very glad if her poor children all happy and good like little missy."

"Oh, I wish I could teach them!" exclaimed Sybil, clasping her hands. "I wish I were a grownup woman, that I might know everything, and go out to India, and teach the poor black people to be happy."

"Missy going back there when great lady," said Coolemah, as she stroked the fair head lying in her lap. "Marry Governor-General perhaps, and come back to Madras, and have little Papah for ayah. Would missy like that?"

"What were you saying, ayah? Oh no, I shall never go back to Madras, I have no friends there now. But, ayah, you will go back, and you must tell your poor children all that Jesus has done for them."

"But, missy, how I believing that? How I knowing that true?"

Little Sybil's face overspread with horror.

"O ayah! you must try to believe. O my poor ayah! you must believe! you shall believe!"

"Hush, missy! mustn't cry. What good that? Ayah believing everything if missy choose."

"But it isn't if I choose, Coolemah; it is because Jesus loves you so much that you must love Him and believe in Him in return. Oh, I will pray to Him to send something to make you believe."

At this moment the voice of Roger Hervey, one of Sybil's new friends, was heard calling to her to join them in a game of hide-and-seek.

"Come on, Sybil; we're having such fun up and down the steerage ladder. They never catch us, because when we hear them coming we slip up on deck the other way."

"Directly, Roger. Ayah, I am going to play, but I shan't forget you all the time. I will never forget you, ayah, till you are as happy as I am."

"Yes, Roger, I am ready." And in another minute the child's face was dimpled with smiles, as she ran away with her boy companion to select a fit hiding-place in which to conceal themselves.

It was a great shock to Sybil, when little Edward was first carried on deck by his papa, to find he was a cripple, and could not walk.

"Put him down, sir," she said on that occasion. "I daresay he feels weak, but I am very strong, and I will hold his arm, and take care that he does not fall. You will not be afraid to walk with me, Edward, will you?"

"Alas! my dear little girl," said Edward's papa, "he cannot walk. He has been a cripple from his birth. Edward has always laid down on his back, as you see him now."

The colour forsook Sybil's cheek.

"Never walked!" she faltered; "never run about! And will it always be so, sir?"

"I fear it will, Sybil. My poor child must learn to bear his affliction as best he may."

Little Sybil began to cry.

"Why is Sybil crying, papa?" said Edward.

"Because she is sorry for you, my boy. But you are not unhappy, are you, my little Edward? Papa and mamma love you dearly, and do all they can to make your life comfortable and pleasant to you."

"And I have Sybil," replied the child. "Don't cry, Sybil; I don't mind much. And whilst you are running about with the others I will keep Fatima safe in my lap, and take care that nobody treads on her."

Sybil's only answer was to fetch her kitten, and place it in Edward's arms, while she helped his papa to arrange his mattress and pillows on the deck.

But the fact of her little friend's affliction made a great impression on her, and she alluded to it several times afterwards.

"I have been very ungrateful and wicked, ayah," she said to Coolemah. "I have been wishing so often lately that I had a papa and mamma like Edward."

"How that wicked, missy?"

"Why, don't you see? Jesus took my papa and mamma away because I am a strong girl, and when I grow up I shall be able to take care of myself; but if He had taken away poor Edward's papa and mamma, what would he have done without them?"

"Some one else taking care of Edward, missy."

"O ayah! how could anybody take care of him like his own mamma? He will never be able to walk about and amuse himself. All his life he must lie on a sofa or a bed, and who could stay with him always, and talk to him, unless it was his mother? What would you do if Ramasawmy were as weak as Edward, ayah?"

"O missy! I don't know. That would be very bad thing for Ramasawmy and me."

"So it is for Edward. I will not envy Edward for having a mamma and papa again. I am glad he has them. I hope God will never take them away from him." And Sybil redoubled her attentions to the crippled child, and became quite a little sister of mercy to him.

But her chief friend on board the Cashmere was brother Hubert. This young man had continued his kindness to the little girl under his charge, and every evening had faithfully paid a visit to her cabin, and read her a chapter or two out of the Bible.

Sometimes Sybil would draw him on to talk about what he had been reading, or she would ask him to explain the meaning of the chapter to Edward and herself, and during these conversations the child's quick eyes and ears often detected a look of sadness or a sigh which passed unnoticed by the others.

She was very desirous to ask Mr Dennison why he was unhappy, but she seldom saw him alone, and her instinct taught her not to put such a question in public. She knew, however, where his cabin was situated, and one day, as the young man was about to enter it to arrange his dress for dinner, he stumbled over a little figure seated on the threshold.

"Holloa, Sybil!" he exclaimed. "Why, what are you doing here? Got a favour to ask of me, or been upsetting all my goods and chattels, like an inquisitive little woman as you are."

"Got a favour to ask of you, brother Hubert," said the child, as she nestled into his arms; "a very great favour. I want you to tell me something."

"Out with it, then, for the dinner-bell will ring in another minute."

"Oh, but this is serious!" replied Sybil; "and I have been waiting here ever so long that I might speak to you. Brother Hubert, why are you so sad?"

Mr Dennison had been gazing full into the child's face, but at this pointblank question he turned red and looked the other way.

"Sad?" he repeated. "How do you know I am sad?"

"I can see it," replied Sybil. "I saw it at the Cape of Good Hope when you were in Mr Williams' house, and now I see it much more plainly. You are very often sad, brother Hubert. When you are not talking, you sigh, and your eyes look dark and grave, and you pull down your lip with your teeth, so" --

"O Sybil! this will never do," laughed Mr Dennison, uneasily. "I shall have to sew up your little eyes, and your little mouth too, if you go watching me and chattering like this." And he rose abruptly, and put the child off his knee. Sybil was very much distressed; the tears rushed into her eyes.

"You are not angry with me?" she said, falteringly.

"Not angry, of course, only little girls should not be so curious!"

"O Hubert! I am not curious; it was only because -- because" --

"Because what?"

"Because -- I love you, and I was so sorry."

The young man turned round, saw the glistening eyes, the piteous drawn-down mouth, and holding out his arms, took Sybil in his embrace again, and kissed her fondly.

"Oh, I am so sorry!" she sobbed, "I didn't mean to make you angry."

"I am not angry, dear; I should be a brute to be angry with my little sister for being so kind as to think of me. But when people are in trouble, Sybil, it makes them give way to impatience. You must forgive mine."

"Then you are in trouble?" said the child, as she pressed her velvet cheek to his. "Dear brother Hubert, how I wish I could comfort you!"

"That is beyond your skill, little one. My trouble is of my own seeking, and I must learn to outlive it by myself."

"Is it a very great one, brother Hubert? As bad as mine when papa went away?"

The dinner-bell was ringing furiously now, but Mr Dennison did not seem to heed it as he sat there with Sybil's head upon his shoulder.

"Greater than that, Sybil. Children cannot feel pain as grown people can."

"Worse than losing papa and mamma, and being an orphan. O brother Hubert! I cannot guess how it could be worse."

"Listen, Sybil: suppose you had set your heart upon having some good thing, the best thing in the world to you, better even than a father or a mother, and you had worked hard to get it, and it had actually been given you; that you had called it your own, and thought you were going to keep it all your life long, and then it was taken away again and given to some other person. Don't you think that would make you very unhappy?"

"Did God give the good thing to you, brother Hubert?"

"I suppose so, Sybil -- I thought so."

"And then God took it away again, as He did my papa and mamma."

"Not quite in the same manner, Sybil. Your papa and mamma are in heaven, but they are still your own papa and mamma; but this thing will never be mine again, either in heaven or on earth."

And Hubert Dennison heaved a long, deep sigh.

"Still God took it away, brother Hubert?"

"Yes, dear, I suppose He did; it doesn't make it any the easier to bear."

"Edward got a knife yesterday," said little Sybil, sagely, "and he didn't want to give it up, but his papa took it away, for fear it should cut him."

"But what has Edward's knife to do with my misfortunes, Sybil."

"Only, I thought perhaps that the good thing you wanted, Hubert, might have been like the knife, and cut you if you had kept it. Because why should Jesus take it away if it was really a good thing for you?"

"Why does everybody in the world have trouble in some shape or another, Sybil? It would take your little head a long time to answer that question."

"But God is our Father, Hubert, and Jesus is our Brother. When Mr Williams first told me that, I thought it very strange that He should have taken away my papa and mamma, and Mr Williams' little children, and I said so. And that evening as we were walking out, Mr Williams showed me a black woman with a baby. The baby was crying because it's mother wouldn't let it pick a beautiful scarlet flower that grew in the hedge. And Mr Williams picked that flower, and showed me how its leaves were full of great thorns that would have pricked the baby's hand. And he said the black mother was like God, because she carried the baby away from the flower, and didn't listen to its screaming; and that whenever God took away what we loved, or did not give us what we wanted, it was because it was bad for us, though we didn't know it. The baby couldn't see the thorns, you know, brother Hubert."

"I see what you are driving at, you wise little woman. But suppose some babies prefer to be pricked, so long as they can get the flower, Sybil, eh?"

"If you had a little baby, you wouldn't let it be pricked, brother Hubert, would you? And fathers and mothers must know best. But it is very sad you are vexed about this thing which has been taken away from you, and Jesus must be vexed too."

"How do you make that out, Sybil?"

"O Hubert! how could you be sorry and Jesus not be sorry also, when even I am sorry, who have only known you such a little while? Mr Williams says that Jesus is always grieved when we are grieved, and that He has felt everything the same as we do. Perhaps when He was on earth, brother Hubert, He wanted good things too, and they didn't come to Him."

The young man did not answer, he was gazing over the water out of the cabin port.

"Dear Hubert!" murmured little Sybil, as she pressed up lovingly against him, "I would get you the good thing if I could, and I am sure Jesus would get you two good things if He thought they would make you happier. There's poor little Edward," ran on the child, "he's got no legs, or at least, he can't walk. I suppose God would make him walk if He thought it better \ and I am an orphan, and Coolemah has no husband, and three little black children who have never heard of Jesus. All this seems sad, brother Hubert, doesn't it? But Mr Williams says that if we had everything we wished for in this world, we should never want to go to heaven."

Mr Dennison kissed the little girl, and put her down. His face was very serious, although his words were light.

"Sybil, you chatterbox!" he said, "do you know that I have lost my dinner?"

"Oh! is dinner over?" cried Sybil, returning with dismay to the things of this earth, "and you have had none. Brother Hubert, what will you do?"

"Go and make love to the steward, and see if I cannot persuade him to be amiable. Come, Sybil, you shall go with me. We have had enough serious talk for one afternoon; we will go up and have a thorough good game of romps on deck."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A Steamer goes much faster than a sailing vessel. It only takes a month for a steamer to go from the Cape of Good Hope to England, and a month passes very quickly on board ship.

A fortnight had slipped away before Sybil felt thoroughly at home on board the Cashmere, and then she was astonished and half frightened to hear that in two weeks more they would reach England, and she would have to commence a new life in a new house.

She clung to Mr Dennison, her last friend, more closely than ever after that day, and the young man seemed never tired of talking with the child, of explaining to her all the wonderful things they saw on the voyage, and listening to her childish comments and expressions of affection.

One night he called her up on deck to see the waters surrounding the vessel illuminated as though with fire. Far down as the eye could reach there appeared to be flashing lights which moved and swayed about; came sometimes to the surface of the water, and then dived downwards to the bottom.

"Lights under the sea!" cried Sybil. "Brother Hubert, how did they get there?"

"They are phosphoric fish, Sybil; the captain has just sent a man to fetch a bucket to catch some, then you shall see them nearer."

The bucket was brought, and lowered by a rope; and soon it came bumping up the sides of the vessel again, filled with salt water.

"But there are no fish in it," said Sybil, in a tone of disappointment as it was placed on the deck.

"Put in your hand and stir up the water, my dear," replied the captain of the steamer.

The little girl did so, and immediately the contents of the bucket were all a-glow, as though her hand had set a light to them.

"I never saw anything so wonderful as this before!" said Sybil. "Where does the light come from?"

"It is emitted from their skins," said Mr Dennison, "and only when they are in motion; but they are very curious creatures without their light, Sybil. Did you ever see a fish like this before?" and he held up what seemed to be a tube of dirty-white jelly to her.

"Never, brother Hubert; why, it has no head or tail, -- I wonder what use it is?"

"All these creatures have their uses, little lady," said the captain, "although we may be too ignorant to discover them. The Almighty never made anything in vain."

"No, sir, I suppose not," replied Sybil, timidly.

Another day Mr Dennison called her on deck in the morning. The steamer was passing through a shoal of sea-weed, the varieties and colours of which were so beautiful, that they looked like different kinds of fruits.

"Currants!" cried Sybil, in her delight, -- "bunches of white currants! and what are those long green strips like ribbons, and those reddish-coloured balls?"

"They are all varieties of sea-weed, Sybil," replied Mr Dennison. "That line you see in the distance is the Azore Islands, and the presence of this sea-weed denotes that we are near land."

"How I should like to get some for Edward brother Hubert! he would be so pleased to see these currants; cannot we catch some, and put them in a bottle?"

"Of course you can; you run and find the bottle, and I will fish for the sea-weed." And off went Sybil in the highest of spirits, to beg an old bottle from the steward.

But very soon after the Cashmere had sighted the Azores, foul weather came on. It began by a dull day and a cold wind, which every one found very trying and disagreeable after the warm weather they had been enjoying so long.

Sybil came on deck, and found poor little Edward, who could not run about and warm himself, crying with the cold.

"Edward must go down to his mamma, Coolemah," she said to her ayah, with all the authority of a little woman. "The wind blows so that his poor hands are quite frozen; and his shawl will not keep on properly. Don't be sorry, Edward! If your mamma's head aches to-day, and she cannot read to you, I will come down into the cabin, and we will play a nice game together."

"Is this the little girl who has been so kind to my poor child?" said a soft voice behind them, and Sybil looked up and saw a pale, thin lady, who seemed so ill and weak that she could hardly stand, leaning on the arm of Edward's papa.

"Yes, this is Sybil, mamma!" cried Edward, and then Sybil jumped up and held down her head and coloured, like a modest little girl as she was.

"Yes, this is she," repeated the gentleman, as he patted Sybil on the shoulder; "and indeed, my dear,

we have a great deal to thank her for, she has been like a sister to Edward."

The mother did not speak in reply, but she stretched out her hand and drew Sybil into her arms, and kissed her several times in silence.

"This is an unfortunate day for your first appearance, Mary," said the gentleman, presently; "I really do not think you will be able to remain here; and as for Edward, the sooner he is carried down-stairs the better. It is too cold for any one to sit on deck."

And so the lady and Edward both went down again, and Sybil was left on deck by herself.

"Holloa, Sybil!" cried Mr Dennison an hour afterwards, as he met her wandering about alone. "Why, you look like a little mad woman! Your hair is blowing straight out on end; your nose is as red as a cherry; you have lost one of the ribbons from your sleeves, and the other is just about to follow it! What have you been doing to yourself?"

"It is the wind, brother Hubert: directly I go one way, it blows everything about me the other; and once or twice it has whirled me right round."

"But why do you stay on deck, child? everybody is in the saloon. They say we are going to have a squall."

"Oh, it is so grand to watch the sea, Hubert! Look at the waves now; what a dark colour they seem, and what beautiful white crests they have! See how they prance, just like horses, right up to the side of the ship, and they go back with a roar. . They daren't come over the deck, and they seem in such a rage about it."

"They'd come over soon enough, dear, if they had a mind. I hope they mayn't take it into their heads to do so. What kind of a time are we going to have, Collins?" continued Mr Dennison to a sailor who was passing by.

"A dirty time, sir, I'm afraid. That sky doesn't bode any good, and the wind's from the wrong quarter. I've just got the order to ship the dead lights."

"To ship the dead lights?" repeated Sybil; "is anybody dead?"

"No, no, it is only a term," said Mr Dennison, who was afraid the child might be frightened at what the man had said. "They are going to fasten down the ports, Sybil, that is all. It will make your cabin rather dark, but you mustn't mind that."

"Oh, I don't mind!" replied Sybil, "but it will be very dull for poor little Edward. If there is a very great storm coming, Hubert, perhaps we may all be drowned."

"Heaven forbid, my dear! What makes you think of anything so horrible?"

"I thought you would like it, perhaps, brother Hubert."

"You must think I have strange tastes, Sybil."

The child looked puzzled.

"But, Hubert, as you haven't got that -- that good thing, you know, that you wanted so much, wouldn't it be happier for you to live in heaven than here?"

"I have no doubt it would, dear; but, you see, every one clings to life."

"But Mr Williams said that heaven was life, and this was only a waiting. But, O Hubert! suppose it should be -- suppose the storm should come, and we should all go down under the sea."

"My darling child, don't distress yourself with any such idea!" said Mr Dennison, for he saw that Sybil was trembling.

"But if it should -- if it should -- what would poor Coolemah do?"

"Coolemah?" repeated the young man, in surprise.

"Yes, Coolemah; because, you know, she won't believe, she says she can't believe; so how could she go to Jesus? O Hubert! I must go and talk to Coolemah; perhaps when she hears the storm is coming, she will try to believe."

"You had better take that child off the deck, sir," said the captain, who was wrapped up in a great rough coat, with a cap slouched over his eyes, "or you will have her blown overboard in another minute. The cabins are the proper places for passengers in such weather as this."

"Come, Sybil, we will go down-stairs," said Mr Dennison; but when they tried to move, the strong gusts of wind nearly took the slender child off her feet, and he was obliged to carry her in his arms, and to hold very tight to the railings of the companion-ladder himself, or they would both have been blown down.

When they reached the cabin, they found it full of ladies and gentlemen, all huddled up together, and talking with anxious faces about the probability of the storm blowing over. Meanwhile a great noise of shouting and running about had commenced on deck, and some one said that the water was getting into.the engine-room, and they should have difficulty in keeping the fires alight. Sybil managed to make her way across the saloon, although the ship was rocking more than she had ever known it do before, in to her own cabin, where she found Edward, who had been taken very sick again, in his berth, and Coolemah seated on the floor, swaying herself backwards and forwards with her head in her hands. The cabin was almost dark, for the sailors had fastened a wooden shutter in front of the window which they call a port; but it was light enough for Sybil to see that the attitude of her ayah was one of distress.

"O my dear Coolemah!" she exclaimed, "what is the matter? why are you crying?"

"O missy!" said the ayah, "there's a great storm coming, and Coolemah will never see Madras nor her poor children again."

"Then why don't you ask Jesus to send the storm away, ayah?"

"Missy, I not know how to do that thing. I not know how to ask. My Sawmy long way off, he never hearing if I speak."

(I must stop here for a minute to say that "Sawmy" is the name by which the Madras natives call all their idols, although each one has also a peculiar name to itself.)

"But Jesus can hear," interposed Sybil. "He is never far off, ayah. He is always near. He is much greater than the sea. He walked on the waters, you know, and said, 'Peace! be still!' He can say 'Peace! be still!' to these waters, ayah, if He chooses."

"Yes, missy, but often not choosing. So many ships wrecked in Madras Roads. Once thirty-seven wrecks all in one night."

For a minute little Sybil had no answer to make to this. She could think of no good reason why thirty-seven ships should go to pieces in a night. But there must have been a good reason, she was sure of that. She only wished Mr Williams had been there to explain it to them.

Presently she said timidly -- 

"Ayah, Jesus must have loved all the men in those ships very much, I think."

"Killing is not loving, missy."

"No, not killing, but to take them home to heaven so soon. They couldn't have gone home, you know, unless Jesus had let them die first. And they were only a very, very little while dying, perhaps a minute or two, and then they found themselves in a beautiful place, where they had everything they wanted. I don't think when they got to that place that they could have cared much about the storm, ayah."

But at this moment the Cashmere gave a tremendous lurch, which bumped poor little Edward against the sides of his berth, and threw Coolemah into a fresh paroxysm of terror.

"Me go bottom! me go bottom!" she called out, and then she fell forward on the floor and began sobbing with fright. Sybil had also been thrown down. The sudden shock had driven her up against the door of the cabin, and then back against the washing-stand, and she was shaken and bruised. But she did not stay to think of herself; her only thought was for the poor black woman, who had no hope, if death came to her, of a beautiful heaven after death. She staggered back to the spot where the ayah had thrown herself down, and kneeling beside her, put her arm round her neck.

"Dear ayah!" said the child, laying her innocent lips against the dusky cheek, "Jesus is quite near us -- do try to believe it! -- and if we die, His beautiful angels will come and carry us up to heaven, to live with Him for ever."

"Taking missy, perhaps," sobbed Coolemah, "but not me. How black woman get to place like that?"

"Oh yes, ayah, He will take you; He will take every one who believes in Him, He has promised He will. Ayah, I will pray to Jesus now, this very minute, to put it into your heart to believe, and then you will never say that again." And with her hand in Coolemah's, in broken sentences the child prayed her simple prayer that God would send comfort and light into the poor heathen's soul.

"And now I must go back again and find brother Hubert," she said, when she had finished, "and ask him about the storm. Perhaps he may say that it is not going to be such a very bad storm after all, ayah, who knows? or if it is a bad storm, I daresay we shall get safely through it like lots of other ships do, so you must take comfort, and think of that."

And kissing her weeping ayah, the little girl left the cabin. But in the saloon she found matters even worse than she had anticipated. All the passengers were assembled there; some staring in horror at the patch of angry waters which they could see from the port-holes; others shrinking from the clamour and noise which was going on overhead, and the sound of the waves as they broke over the upper deck and dashed against the door of their apartment. The stewards were standing whispering together at one end of the saloon. It was impossible to get any regular dinner served that day, as the waves had long since put the galley-fires out, and all the men were wanted to help on deck. Some ladies were reading their Bibles and crying over them, others were on their knees praying, and all the gentlemen looked grave and sorrowful. Amidst the confusion, Sybil spied Mr Dennison sitting by himself in an arm-chair, and as well as she could, she made her way towards him.

CHAPTER XXIX.

The passengers looked at the little girl with surprise, for she was the only child amongst them; all the others had been put to bed, lest they should be thrown about and hurt by the violent motion of the vessel, and one gentleman suggested that Sybil should go there too.

"Thank you, sir," she answered, simply, "but I shall not be any trouble, and I would rather stay with brother Hubert."

The young man received her warmly, and taking her on his knee, held her closely to his breast. His thoughts had been very sad ones before she appeared; for notwithstanding he affected to believe that the enjoyment of life was over for him, he still clung very fondly to existence, and the idea of leaving his father and mother and sisters, of dying far away from home, and before he had seen any of them again, was very painful to him.

And this child, too, the only creature on board ship in whom he took an interest, who, by her simple prattle and earnest, unwavering faith, had taught him a more practical lesson than even his life had done, was she too to be sacrificed? Was her little being to be quenched as sorrowfully as it had begun?

For he could not conceal from himself that they were in great danger, and that in a few hours not one of those assembled on the Cashmere might be alive.

But Sybil's smiling face seemed to dispel his gloomy forebodings; the child was not afraid -- why should he be?

"So you have found out brother Hubert?" he said, gladly, as she nestled her fair head against his shoulder; "this is a very uncomfortable day, dear, and everybody is so busy that I am much afraid you will get no dinner. Are you very hungry?"

"Not at all, Hubert. There is so much to think about I have had no time to feel hungry."

Her friend imagined that the general alarm had affected the child's spirits, and he answered her lightly, in order to rally them.

"Why, what have you got to think about? Of whether the captain will be obliged to throw all the stores overboard in order to lighten the vessel, and we shall get no more plum-puddings till we arrive in Old England."

Sybil's great eyes turned upon him in solemn surprise.

"Hubert! we shall never see England. I heard the sailors say so."

"Nonsense, child! The sailors are always saying some nonsense of the sort. A month hence we shall be sitting together at home, and laughing at the remembrance of the fright we were all in to-day."

"I would rather be sitting together in heaven," remarked Sybil, thoughtfully.

"My darling child, what extraordinary things you do say!"

"But, Hubert, I don't know any one in England, remember! I have never seen them; they will be quite strange to me; it will not feel like home."

"And in the other place, wouldn't you feel strange there?"

"What, with papa and mamma, and Jesus? O Hubert! I know them; but I don't know my grandmamma, nor any of my aunts and uncles."

"Queer little mortal!" remarked Mr Dennison; but he sighed heavily as he did so, and pressed his lips on Sybil's forehead.

"We should be so happy there," the child continued in a dreamy voice; "I am sure we should, and you would be such friends with my papa. He was such a dear papa, Hubert, so good and kind and merry. When he went away, I wanted to die; oh! I did so want to die, until Jesus sent Mr Williams to me.

"And was Mr Williams as good as your papa, then?"

"Quite as good, but not so dear; how could he be? It is only children's own papas that are as dear as that. But Mr Williams taught me about heaven, where my papa was gone, and then I was happy again because I knew he was."

"And yet you want to go to him, Sybil."

"Mr Williams says I mustn't want to go till Jesus calls me," replied the child; "but if the ship goes down, Jesus will call me, Hubert."

"And you will be glad to go; you are not afraid of those great dark waves you see there, dashing and tossing about; you do not mind the thought of being swallowed up by them, and sinking down to the bottom of the sea."

The little girl shuddered and closed her eyes.

"Oh yes, I do, Hubert; but not very much. Not if you will hold my hand, and let me sink with you. O Hubert!" with a sudden attack of natural terror, "you will hold me tight, won't you? You will not let me fall into the water all alone?"

"I will hold you tight, darling; whatever happens, Sybil, I will be close at hand, and God grant, if we sink, that we may rise together.''

"And live with Him, in His beautiful place," murmured Sybil, "where there is no night and no sea, and every one is happy and joyful together."

"What is that?" exclaimed Mr Dennison quickly.

There was a sudden and terrible commotion on deck; every one seemed to be running about and shouting at once. The ship gave a tremendous lurch -- first sinking down as if she were going right under the water, and then bounding upwards as though she would leap out of it -- and this was followed by a great crash, and then an awful stillness. The ladies screamed; the gentlemen started to their feet. One woman fainted dead away, and Coolemah, livid with terror, rushed into the saloon.

"Where my missy? where my poor, poor missy? O missy, we all going to die! never see no land, no friends again."

At the first shock Mr Dennison had risen, but he still held Sybil firmly by the hand.

"Brother Hubert, hold me tight! Coolemah, we are going to Jesus. Don't be frightened, Coolemah; it will soon be over, and He will come Himself to take us home."

"Missy believing that -- now?" said Coolemah, surprised out of her alarm by the child's words.

"Believe it -- of course we believe it; don't we, Hubert? Kiss me, dear Hubert, and hold me fast; we are going home together."

"Child believing it now," repeated Coolemah incredulously -- "now, when all going to drown in the sea; then I believe it too, missy."

What answer Sybil would have made to this I cannot tell, for at that moment the captain of the Cashmere rushed into the saloon. His hair was wild and dishevelled, and his face was pale with anxiety and suspense, but still he smiled, though faintly.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said harshly, "I have come to tell you that under God," here the captain removed his cap, "we are safe at last."

"Safe!" screamed the ladies; and then some of them commenced crying, and some went off into hysterics, and some kissed their husbands; whilst the gentlemen shook the captain and each other by the hand, and asked for more particulars of the storm.

"I cannot stay longer now," said the captain; "there is still much to be done on deck; but the hurricane is over; the wind has shifted, and with the exception of losing our mast, we have come off scotfree. So far all is now well; and I hope in the course of an hour or so to meet you at as comfortable a meal as our late disasters will permit us to provide for you." And smiling again, the captain rushed away.

Mr Dennison sank back in his chair, feeling almost faint He had not known until he heard that they were safe, how much he had dreaded the alternative of which the child beside him seemed to think so little. He had still hold of Sybil's hand, and as he reseated himself, she stole her arm about his neck.

"Hubert," she whispered, "are you glad or sorry?"

"Oh, glad, child, glad -- thankful beyond measure; and so would you be if you could realise the danger through which we have just passed."

"That quite true what captain saying, sir? no more danger now?" said Coolemah, interrogatively.

"Yes, ayah -- quite true. The captain is too sensible to say so unless it were true."

"Very good news," laughed Coolemah. "Now I happy again, and my missy, she happy too."

"Yes, ayah, I am happy because you are, and so is brother Hubert."

"And you are glad for yourself, darling, surely?" said Mr Dennison, looking up into Sybil's face.

"Yes, of course I am, Hubert, because Jesus wishes it, and therefore it must be right; and it is very comfortable to feel so safe, but" --

"But what, dear?"

"But I did so want to see my own papa again," whispered the child as she buried her face in the young man's bosom.

CHAPTER XXX.

As soon as the storm had completely subsided, as soon as the baggage, which had been brought up in case of its becoming necessary to throw it overboard, had been put back into the hold, the decks washed down, and the dead-lights unshipped again, everybody became very cheerful and merry on board the Cashmere.

The sailors sang boisterously loud songs over their work; the stewards whistled as they laid the cloth for dinner; the children ran about half-crazy with delight at being allowed to leave their dark, narrow berths for the breezy deck; and their fathers and mothers smiled at their pleasure, and talked about unpacking the clothes which they had provided against their landing in England.

Those ladies and gentlemen who had been most frightened when the ship was in danger, were the first now to laugh at their past alarm; and every one seemed to have forgotten the storm in the thought of arriving so soon at home. For the Cashmere was very near the end of her journey. She had passed the Bay of Biscay, and the captain expected that evening to see the light at the Land's End, in Cornwall, which is the first glimpse travellers from India have of the old country. And so everybody was excited and happy at the prospect of so soon meeting their friends and relations again, and never minded the cold nor the discomfort (for it was winter weather when Sybil arrived in England, and there are no fires except for cooking on board ship) in the idea that the long tiresome voyage was over.

Everybody, that is to say, except our little Sybil -- for, strange to relate, since the day of the storm, when she had behaved so bravely and so well, the child had not recovered her spirits, but seemed to mope about and be depressed, and altogether unlike her own patient, cheerful little self. Once she even went so far as to complain of the cold, and to wish that she were back at Cape Town with Mr Williams, or at Madras with her old ayah. Coolemah said she was afraid her little missy must be going to be ill, and Mr Dennison took Sybil on his knee, and tried to coax the reason of the change out of her.

"What is the matter with you, my dear? Are you not very grateful that God has spared the lives of all the people on board this ship (our own included), and given us the hope of meeting our friends, who would have grieved so much for our loss, again?"

"Of course I am, brother Hubert -- very, very glad and thankful. Poor little Edward was so frightened at the storm; he will not be happy until he is safe on shore."

"Then why do you look so gloomy, child? I don't believe I have seen you smile since that day."

"O Hubert!" and a smile burst out all over Sybil's face as she spoke, "how can you say so? But I don't mind telling you -- I don't mind telling you anything, only it's a secret, remember -- that I am just a little bit afraid."

"Afraid of what?"

"Of England," with a deep sigh. "Whenever I think of England, I think of Mrs Barlow -- she will be there soon, you know, with all the boys, and I shall be so afraid of meeting them again."

"But that is nonsense, Sybil. Considering how little care Mrs Barlow took of you, I should think the house of your grandmamma, Lady Newland, would be the very last place in which you would be likely to meet her."

"But my grandmamma may be just like Mrs Barlow, Hubert, who knows?"

"I do not think it is at all probable, Sybil."

"Had you ever a grandmamma, Hubert?"

"Oh yes. I have one living now -- a very good old lady, and very kind to me."

"I have never seen an old lady," said Sybil; "there were no old ladies in Madras, so I cannot tell what a grandmamma is like. Sometimes I think she will be like Mother Hubbard in my picture-book, or perhaps like old ayah washed white, and with spectacles on, you know."

Mr Dennison laughed.

"No, no. I have never met your grandmamma, Sybil; but I am sure she will not be like Mother Hubbard nor old ayah either. No English ladies are. She will be a very charming old woman with kind eyes, and a cap with white ribbons -- now see if she is not."

"Still she may feel like Mrs Barlow," continued Sybil. "I often heard Mrs Barlow say that she couldn't feel towards me as if she had known me all my life. Now, my grandmamma has not known me all my life -- she has not known me at all; perhaps she will not be able to feel either."

"Don't worry yourself about improbabilities, Sybil. The probability is that your mamma's friends will love you very much for her sake."

"But, Hubert," whispered the child presently, "there is another thing. You know I am rather shabby."

"What?" demanded Mr Dennison.

"Shabby," repeated the little girl, colouring deeply. "Mrs Barlow said I was so shabby she was ashamed I should be seen with her children -- perhaps my grandmamma may be ashamed of me too."

The child's clothes were not so good as they might have been; for the stock with which she had left Madras had been a scanty one, and Mrs Jackson had procured her as few things as she possibly could do with for the rest of the voyage. But Mr Dennison, like a true gentleman, burned with indignation to think that any one should have been so unlady-like as to throw her poverty in Sybil's teeth.

"My dear little girl," he said, "you are worrying yourself with shadows. If your frocks and pinafores are not so smart as those of some children, every one knows the reason; and your grandmamma will soon buy you new ones and set all that to rights."

"I couldn't bear her to call my papa a beggar, though," continued Sybil.

"How could she do that when he was an officer?"

"But Mrs Hodson in Madras said he was a beggar -- 'a perfect beggar' she called him, because I heard her, and it made me cry."

"Sybil, you must try and forget all the past -- it has been too hard for you, poor child -- and only remember that your little troubles are nearly over."

"I do try," said the child thoughtfully; "and Hubert," -- in a whisper, -- "I pray sometimes not to be afraid of my grandmamma, only" -- with another deep sigh -- "it will all be so strange and new to me."

Mr Dennison saw that the same feeling had hold of Sybil as they drew nearer home; for though she tried hard to be merry and cheerful, the least allusion to landing was sufficient to drive the colour from her cheek and to make her silent and subdued. The Cashmere encountered no more contrary winds, but steamed quickly up the Channel to the London Docks. Then all was bustle and confusion. The friends of the passengers who had come to meet them rushed on board and fell into their arms and kissed them, and then the passengers went nearly wild with delight, and talked so fast and asked so many questions that they forgot everything they had arranged to do, and left half their baggage behind them. As it was when poor little Sybil went on board at Madras, so it was when she landed in England; no one had come to see her off or say good-bye, and no one came to meet and welcome her. When at last, her box and Coolemah's were ready, and dressed in her deep mourning, with her kitten in her arms, she came on deck, and stood silently by Mr Dennison's side, she looked like some sorrowful little creature about to start on a long journey, rather than one just returned from exile.

Mr Dennison did not quite know whether he ought to go on first and prepare Lady Newland for Sybil's arrival or not. The Lady Gower, which had sailed from the Cape a week before the Cashmere, would not reach England for nearly a month afterwards, therefore Lady Newland could have had no intelligence of her grandchild's transfer from one vessel to the other, and would be taken by surprise at her appearance. She might not even be residing at her town house; but Mr Dennison had promised Sir Archibald not to lose sight of Sybil until he had placed her in the hands of her grandmother, and therefore he finally decided to take her at once to Lorrimer Square.

"Come, Sybil," he said, "the cab is packed and ready; you must say good-bye to Edward, and go with me."

The children clung to each other, and cried as though they were bidding an eternal farewell.

"This is a great deal too serious," said Mr Dennison, laughing. "Why, Sybil, you are making as much fuss over it as though you were just going to start off for India again. Don't you know that Edward is to live in the same town as you are, and not a stone's throw from Lorrimer Square? You will see him as often as you choose."

"I am not sure," replied little Sybil gravely. "How can I be sure until I have seen my -- grandmamma?"

The word came out with a jerk, as though she had the greatest difficulty in pronouncing it.

"Well, we will go and see her at once then," said Mr Dennison, "and hear what she says to it. This way, Sybil -- you have said good-bye to everybody, haven't you? Now, cabby, 18 Lorrimer Square -- and drive fast."

As they drove along the crowded streets, the little girl would not look at anything that her friend pointed out to her, but sat up as close to him as she possibly could, with her hand locked in his and her head upon his shoulder.

"What are you thinking about now, Sybil?"

"Thinking if I shall ever see you again. O brother Hubert, promise that you'll come and see me sometimes."

"See you, you little goose -- of course I shall. As often as I am in London, I shall always be running in and out to see my little sister."

"If she will let you," interposed Sybil, sadly.

At last the cab turned into a square of large handsome houses, and drew up at number 18. "There you are!" cried Mr Dennison, as he opened the door and jumped out. "I shall go in first, if your grandmamma is at home, Sybil, and prepare her for your arrival."

He ran up the steps as he spoke and knocked at the door, whilst little Sybil, white and trembling, watched him anxiously. A footman with powdered hair opened to him, and after hearing that Lady Newland was in town, Mr Dennison followed him into the house.

He was not absent for more than five minutes, but it seemed to Sybil as though he were away for hours. When he returned, the door was left wide open, and the hall seemed full of people.

"Come, dear," he said abruptly, "it's all right;" and lifting the child in his arms, he carried her into the house.

Sybil's head was swimming, and her eyes seemed dim, and her heart beat very loudly'; but she could see that he passed through a crowd of strange people, who were all talking at once, into a beautiful drawing-room covered with blue, and put her down into an arm-chair close to a blazing fire. And then she tried to smile and look around her, but her heart beat louder and louder, till she could not hear what the people were saying; and her eyes were dimmer, till the beautiful blue drawing-room had faded away, and -- little Sybil lay in a dead faint in her grandmamma's chair.

Then every one ran about to get smelling-salts and cold water and eau-de-cologne; and somebody knelt down by the side of the pale, delicate-looking child, and dropped hot tears upon her sweet unconscious face.

Presently Sybil came to herself again. Little by little, the sound of the voices came back to her ears, and the warmth of the fire to her limbs, and she opened her eyes and stared vacantly at the blue drawing-room, and all round and about, until they rested on a face which was bending above her. It was a very kind and gentle face, with soft blue eyes and pale pinky cheeks, and grey hair curled round the forehead, surmounted by a lace cap with white ribbons.

The white ribbons brought some straggling remembrance back to Sybil's hazy little mind.

"Hubert," she struggled to say, "grandmamma!"

At that word of recognition, the lady burst into tears.

"My darling!" she exclaimed, as she folded the little girl to her bosom, "dear motherless lamb -- my lost Sybella's child -- how thankful I am to have you with me, safe and sound!"

"Is it grandmamma?" repeated Sybil with half-recovered senses. "Oh, will you love me?"

"Love you, my darling -- I will love you as I loved your precious mother whilst God spared her to me. I have longed for the moment when I should see you and speak to you, only to tell you how much I love you."

Sybil sprang to her arms in a flood of joyful tears.

"Brother Hubert," she said as soon as she had recovered her voice, "it was wicked of me to wish to die. I had forgotten that Jesus could bring me home."

I do not think I could leave little Sybil happier than she is now. She has kind friends to care for her, and she has learned to love Him who is the best and truest Friend of all; she is safe in her pleasant earthly home, and she is travelling securely along the road which leads to that bright heavenly home which it should be the object of our lives to attain to at last.

One word, however, I have to say about Coolemah, who was sitting out in the cab all the time that her little missy was making the acquaintance of her new relations.

Lady Newland was very kind to the poor black woman who had been so good to her dear little grandchild on the voyage home; and she took such pains, during the few months that Coolemah remained in England, to teach her all about God and heaven, that when she returned to her children in Madras, she was a baptized Christian, ready and anxious to teach them all that she had been taught to believe about the dear Saviour who died for them.

But notwithstanding the trouble that Lady Newland took with her, Coolemah asserts to this day, that what made her first believe that the Christian's God was a true and living God was, the calm and reliant faith which her little missy displayed towards Him when she was standing face to face with death in that dreadful storm.

THE END.