PART I. -- THE UP-COUNTRY STATION.

CHAPTER I.

THE ARRIVAL.

'Well, dear old Kitty, I am glad to have you here in my new home; but what a change for you after the delightful S -- Hills!'

'Yes, Alice, it is woefully hot here. Oh dear! how can you exist? What is the thermometer?'

'Please don't faint if I tell you. It is ninety-seven degrees here under the punkah, and with these wet cuscous chicks. But, come, don't look so horrified. Take some of this delicious tea -- Belmont and China mixed -- it will refresh you after your long journey.'

'How is Sydney? and where is he? Just fancy, this heat made me quite forget to ask after my new brother. Why doesn't he come in, and indulge in this "minor vice" of afternoon tea?'

'You ask so many questions at once. No. 1. He is not so well as he ought to be. The fact is, all the civilians have more work than they know how to get through. No. 2. He is in his cutcherry conducting a magisterial case.'

'Why, Alice, that sounds quite grand for such a young man!'

'Nevertheless it's quite true,' said the young wife, with grave importance in her air and tone; 'and you can't possibly see him to-day till eight o'clock dinner; and then he will be so tired, that you will be a clever girl to get much out of him.'

The speakers were two companion sisters, who had not met since the marriage of the elder one to Sydney Leigh, a rising young civilian in the Madras Presidency. The girl addressed as 'dear old Kitty' was only eighteen, her sister was two years her senior. Their father, Colonel Desmond, was about to retire from the service, and join his family in England, whither they had preceded him.

Now to describe these sisters. Alice was thought pretty by some, but not by many. Her figure was lithe and arrowy; she had a spring in her step, and an elasticity in her whole manner; and, when her face was lighted by a smile, displaying a row of faultless teeth, few could deny that she was charming, for her expression was full of candour and reality.

As for Kitty, she used to rejoice in calling herself 'the ugly one of the family,' but there were many who said, that a girl endowed with such a wealth of dark auburn hair; merry grey eyes, twinkling with fun, shaded with dark lashes; cheeks, which even a tropical climate failed to fade, and a rosy little mouth, capable of any variety of expression, could scarcely be called ugly, in spite of a decided nez retroussé, which certainly did not fulfil the conditions of Tennyson's description, 'Tip-tilted like the petal of a flower,' being of a more sturdy rustic order.

We will now follow them for a few months during Kitty's visit.

Whilst they were slowly sipping their tea, and chatting, occasionally interrupted by a start and exclamation from Alice on account of the prickly heat, from which she was suffering, she said to her sister, 'Well, Katrina, I must say it will be delightful having you with us. I have been weeks and weeks in camp without seeing an English face except my husband's, and not a woman to talk to but my ayah; and I have been from morning to evening quite alone, dependent on my own resources.'

'Why,' said Kitty, 'where was Sydney?'

Alice laughed. 'Where was Syd? Why, Kit, don't you know -- can't you take in -- that he is the man at the wheel, steering over breakers and past shoals and over hidden rocks and trying, straining every nerve to bring this poor old famine-stricken ship safe into harbour?'

'Ah, well!' said Kitty, 'I must plead ignorance as to a civilian's work. I am militaire, you know, a regular Figlia del Regimento;' and before the words were out of her mouth, up she started, and strutted about the room singing Ciasema lo dice, which she just travestied sufficiently to make it absurdly comical, and then relapsing into her arm-chair, exclaimed, 'Oh! it really is too hot for fun. I must take life easily here, and simply exist like a vegetable!'

'At all events, come and change your dress, and get ready for tho evening drive; that will cool you, I hope, and give you an appetite for dinner.'

'Yes, I hope so; and you must tell me all about your last tour, or what do you call it? "Jummabundy" -- what a mouthful!'

'I shall be curious to see how you will like life in camp,' said Alice. 'We must be off again in a few days.'

'Hurrah!' said Kitty, 'gipsifying will be delightful after the long course of civilization which I have gone through; and if you will only let me mount Sultan, I'll ask no more.'

'He shall be yours whilst you are here,' said Alice. 'It is a case of "Love me, love my Arab." He is such a dear, following me like a dog, even up the veranda steps, and taking sugar-cane from my hands, oh, so gently. It is wonderful how humanized pet animals become.'

'Yes,' said Kitty, thoughtfully; 'it seems as if the notice of those above them raised them in the scale of creation. Don't you remember that sermon we heard in England on "The creature itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption," &c., and how it gave good cause to think that the animal creation would have a part in the new earth?'

'Yes,' said Alice. 'I liked it so much, for when this earth is transfigured, how we should miss the "cattle upon a thousand hills," and the beautiful birds singing in the branches. And as for my Sultan, he has too much love in him to be annihilated. But we are getting beyond our depth, so let us return to every-day matters, and come and dress for the drive.'

She took her sister through a long passage, which led into the second bungalow, that formed a part of her house, for there was no up stairs.

The spare bedroom was light and airy, well surrounded with windows, only one of which was open, covered with a wet cuscous tat, so that the scorching wind was turned into a cool breeze in passing through it; but, even so, their first cry on entering was, 'Punkah! punkah!'

'Coming, mem!' was heard outside, and presently the holland frill, attached to a papered board, began to agitate, and then, with long sweeps, produced the currents of air so essential to English comfort. It was pulled by a rope, which passed through a hole in the wall, so that the punkah man sat in the veranda, or, if there were none, in a tiny shed, made on purpose to shelter him from rain or sun. At night two men were employed to relieve each other.

The cot, or bed, was placed in the centre of the room immediately under the punkah, a sofa at the foot of the cot, an almirale, or wardrobe, a dressing-table, and a few chairs and writing-table made up the furniture of the room, the floor of which was matted.

The bath-room, though, contained the washing-stand and a large clothes-horse; for the clothes you take off have to be hung, not folded up, as in England.

The ayah had unstrapped and arranged the boxes of the weary young traveller, taking care to mount them on stones or bricks, to prevent the ravages of the white ants. She was pretty for a native, with regular features, and almond-shaped, liquid eyes. Her 'cloth' consisted of snowy white muslin, with a pink and green border, folded round her, and passing over one shoulder, displayed a small chintz jacket, with shirt sleeves, and so short in the waist that it left the sides bare.

She now greeted 'missus'' sister, by putting both her hands to her forehead, while she bent low, saying -- 

'Salaam, missie, missie plenty tired. This hot country veery hot place for poor missie. Let ayah help.'

'No, thank you, ayah,' said Kitty; 'go help missus. If I want you, then I call.'

A few minutes after, the ayah returned with a message, which she delivered thus; -- 

'Please, missie-ammah, missus say, putting on holland dress, and pale blue ribbons; then same like missus.'

'Very well, ayah; but tell missus, then, she not like my chaperon; we, same like two unmarried sisters.'

The ayah looked puzzled, and said, in a deprecating way -- 

'That plenty hard word. Ayah stoopid woman, not knowing Englees poperly. Missie please say again.'

Kitty said, her eyes twinkling with fun -- 

'Ayah, say chaperon.'

'Saperon!' said the ayah.

'Sh -- !' cried Kitty.

'S -- !' said the ayah.

'There, go along, it's useless,' said Kitty; 'go, take my answer to missus.'

The ayah went, and on entering Mrs. Leigh's room laid her hand on her mouth, as is the custom of natives, when laughing in the presence of their superiors, and said -- 

'That missie, plenty funny missie; she use such big words.'

'Yes, ayah, but what did she say? Will she do as I asked her?' said Alice, somewhat impatiently, 'for I am waiting to dress.'

The ayah replied, as if repeating a lesson by heart. Missie say -- '"Then missus not like one married lady; missus same like one unmarried sister. Not one saperon!"' added the ayah, triumphantly.

Mrs. Leigh, in despair, hurried into her sister's room to know what it all meant, and when she found her quietly putting on the holland, and pale blue ribbons, it was soon explained, to the amusement of both, and the mystification of the. ayah; and the two fresh-looking young sisters went for an evening drive round the station.

What a change from the lovely green hills where Kitty had passed a portion of the hot season. The lake in the hollow of a hill, the twisted jungle trees clustering and nestling in the valleys and on the sides of the hills, the serrated mountain tops, which, when scaled, displayed glowing views of the vast low country, stretched out beneath in a sea-like plain, shimmering with the glaring heat, and making you thankful indeed for the cool refreshment of the mountain air.

Here, at K -- , not a blade of grass was to be seen; the earth looked baked in an oven, the trees and hedges as if cut out of mahogany. A water famine was feared, in addition to the grain one, which was now causing such distress and starvation, that the Government was as its wits' end to know how to provide for the hungry millions.

A regular system of relief works had been wisely planned, so as to prevent pauperism, and a staff of civilians sent from Bengal to aid the over-worked servants of the Madras Government. Still, in spite of care and money, gaunt famine stalked through the land, and thousands palpitated between life and death, and already hundreds of human beings and cattle had perished.

The heat and unhealthiness of K -- were owing to its being situated in a hollow, the hills inclosing it like a horseshoe, forming almost a cul de sac.

The soil was black loam, favourable to the growth of cotton; but now, from the failure of the south-west monsoon in May, not a crop of rice, or any cereal, was to be seen, and the river P -- had for months been a river of sand, glittering hot and dry under the burning sun. Truly the words of the prophet of old lived again, 'The earth is as iron, and the heavens as brass.'

As the sisters were reclining in the comfortable open carriage, the two horse-keepers running on either side, Mrs. Leigh pointed out to Kitty the few bungalows containing the residents, describing their status and characters, but she was soon called on to bow to each in turn, as they were all taking their evening drive, and many an extra nod did she receive, in congratulation at the sight of the companion sister, so long expected.

'You will see all the little community next Thursday,' said Alice, 'when we give our first dinner-party. We shall only be ten in number, including ourselves, so it is not formidable.'

'No,' replied Kitty; 'besides, you are such a veteran housekeeper, having acted so long for our mother. It gave you another pet name. Does Sydney ever call you Dame Durden?'

'Only,' replied Alice, 'when he sees me in my storeroom, surrounded by the servants, and striving to instil into the cook's comprehension the item of some new recipe.'

'I am glad,' said Kitty, 'that you have not become a fine lady, and left all the management to your butler. Many would grow lazy and indifferent in such a climate.' 'Nothing but illness,' replied Alice, 'would ever induce me to give up the reins; and I don't think any amount of riches would develop, or rather degenerate, me into a laisser aller luxurious, do-nothing. But here we are at homo again, and there is dear Sydney ready dressed for dinner, and waiting to welcome you.'

At dinner nothing was on the table but fruit and a few Madeira feather flowers, as the sight of the steaming meats would have taken nay what little appetite the heat had left them. Iced claret and soda-water revived their drooping natures and braced them to the a<se of the short evening, when they were glad enough to retire so as to divest themselves of the superfluous clothing, which, light as it was, seemed too heavy to be borne. Even rings were a burden.

'Shall we meet at chôta hazeree in the veranda to-morrow at seven?' asked Mr. Leigh.

'Do not expect me to be visible till the second breakfast,' said Kitty. I must sleep off the effects of my long, dusty journey.'

'But after to-morrow' I shall challenge you to a canter across country.'

'I shall be delighted,' said Sydney; 'and prophesy that you will be in a chronic state of breaking the Tenth Commandment whenever you ride Sultan.'

'In which case I shall probably break another, and end my visit by running off with him,' replied Kitty.

'It must be a clever dacoit,' retorted Alice, 'who would elude the sub collector of K -- !'

'Of course!' said Kitty.

'I believe this little wife of mine thinks her husband ubiquitous,' said Sydney, laughing.

'I think him good all round,' said Alice, proudly; 'and decidedly the "round man in the round hole!"'

'With which unanswerable statement,' said Sydney, bowing, 'we will conclude the evening.'

CHAPTER II.

THE FIRST DINNER PARTY.

'Alice, that piano is far too low for your voice,' exclaimed Kitty next day on entering the prettily-furnished drawing-room. 'It must be tuned up to concert-pitch for the party. It forces your soprano into another register, and as for me, I shall never be able to grunt out my low notes!'

'Then I must make a vow, for no resolution will be strong enough, I know,'said Alice, 'to rise very early to-morrow and tune it; but it will be nothing short of suffering, to make such an exertion in this weather; yet I suppose it must be done.' This in a resigned tone.

'Ah! you don't know,' said Kitty, triumphantly, 'my list of improvements since I've been left to manage; among them is the art of tuning. Father allowed me to have two lessons of the Madras tunist.'

'Oh ! that is delightful,' exclaimed Alice; 'then you can help me.'

'I won't help you,' said Kitty, 'except by doing it all myself; and I have the most charming little instrument for camp life, which will do to accompany your guitar. It is a flute harmonicon -- father's present to me on my last birthday. I will show it to you.'

The instrument was like a very large accordion in appearance, only it had a little key-board like a piano, and was fitted with stops. Any violin or flute music could be used for it, so that it was valuable as an accompaniment, and, from its portable size, most useful, when larger instruments were out of the question.

Presently the sisters were so full of their music, Alice playing her guitar, and Kitty the harmonium, their sweet rich voices blending in some familiar duet by their cherished Mendelssohn, that all sense of discomfort from the heat seemed to pass away; and then they selected the music most suitable for their country tour, and wiled away the hours in pleasant chat over the home letters, and Indian friends, and scenes, till the tiffin-bell summoned them to a light repast, and then they retired to their rooms, in order to indulge in the luxury of a minimum portion of attire whilst lying under the punkah.

This was the time for reading, for no one dreams of calling in the afternoon, as each European is either enjoying a siesta, or is busily occupied in work or books, as the taste may prompt.

The next morning, true to her promise, Kitty rose at five, having given up her ride, and attired in the lightest of white dressing-gowns, proceeded to raise the piano to the pitch of her harmonicon. The task was no easy one, for the dry hot winds had shrunk the wood, and no sooner were the notes tuned, than down they went again. So she called the butler, and ordered him to bring chatties filled with water; these she placed under the piano, and throwing a blanket over the whole, improvised a sort of vapour bath, which, with the help of damp flannel laid on the wood near the screws, produced the desired effect of swelling it, so that finally her labour was crowned with success, though several times in the course of the day she had to return to the instrument, and supplement her work by raising many a recusant note that would not keep in harmony with its fellows.

On Thursday morning, whilst the Southern Cross was still above the horizon, and the east scarcely showed a sign of the dawn, Kitty sprang on Sultan, Alice standing by in her pretty chintz morning robe, patting his arched neck, and even kissing it; the lovely creature turned his nose gently towards her, and whinnyed his appreciation of her notice. Sydney was mounted on a Persian charger named Akbar, which pawed the ground, and in various ways evinced the utmost impatience to be off.

Their ride was to a spot five miles distant, where some relief works were being carried on. Mr. Leigh's business was to overlook the maistries, and see that the natives did sufficient work to earn the food which Government dealt out to them.

It was little indeed that the very best among them could get through, for they were mostly below par, and numbers fell sick, and had to be taken to the hospital; others, who could have worked well, went about in the listless, lazy way of Orientals . in general. So the road that was being made dragged its slow length along, and from B distance resembled a path covered with a swarm of black ants.

The tahsildar carriers, maistries, and coolies all salaamed low as the young civilian approached, and their energies seemed redoubled all the time that he was riding about amongst them, reproving some, encouraging others, and always maintaining a grave and dignified demeanour, which he threw off as soon as he turned his horse's head homeward.

The sun was already rising, and his glittering rays, even at that early hour, warned them what they had to expect if they braved them  much longer. They both wore sun topees and puggaries wound round them, and hanging down the back; but notwithstanding lightness of gear, both the riders arrived in the compound in melting condition.

Mrs. Leigh was so busy in her storeroom outside the house, that she did not hear them approach.

'Do look at Alice,' said Sydney; 'she makes a first-rate housewife, but has times for everything, and does not allow the cares and troubles of housekeeping and money affairs to overlie the finer parts of her nature.'

'That is quite true,' said Kitty; 'some people, I know, who have the reputation of being very practical and housewifely make it almost the first business of life, and seem to rejoice in making other people uncomfortable, by laying the burden of their perpetual talk and fussiness over it, on them; and then they make a point of giving up whatever little accomplishment or knowledge they once had, on the plea that they hadn't time for such things.'

'Then, on the other hand,' said Sydney,' look at some fine ladies, who lead a do-nothing, pleasure-seeking life, and leave all to their servants.'

'Worse still,' said Kitty; 'but what's the matter, Alice? You look troubled.'

This as Mrs. Leigh hastened towards them, with flushed face and eager manner.

'Oh, Sydney, isn't it too bad? Just look here. Butler, show master directly -- quick, the bundle of grass which that wretched grasscutter wanted to palm on my precious Sultan.'

The butler, a tall, dignified native, dressed in the whitest of calico coats, and large turban with spotless folds, ordered the offending woman up with her bundle. She looked shy and sulky, but nevertheless obeyed orders, and unfastening the rope which tied it up, out rolled a heavy stone from the centre, which she had placed there to give it the required weight.

'Wretch!' exclaimed Alice, who was somewhat annoyed because her husband did not immediately fire up. 'She shall be fined all her month's pay for this.'

'She shall be punished,' said Sydney, in a quiet, determined voice, which affected the nerves of the offender far more than the high tones of her mistress.

Then he turned tenderly to his wife, and said, gently -- 

'You are tired, little one; come to chota hazeree, and we will give Sultan some bread and sugarcane to make up for the stone.'

She was for giving further directions to the servants, but he took her hand, and led her into the front verandah, where the silver teapot and pretty china cups, toast, and fruit, looked invitingly refreshing, after the long early morning's work, and then in pleasant chat over the fragrant tea all vexation was forgotten.

'Alice,' said Mr. Leigh, 'I hope you'll think I've come to a virtuous decision.'

'When do you not?' asked she, archly.

'As to that, I'm not sure whether you will think so this time,' he answered. 'But I've made up my mind not to give champagne as long as this famine lasts.'

'Oh,' said Alice, rather ruefully; 'but won't it be thought stingy in such a well-to-do civilian?'

'I can't help what it's thought,' said he; 'let us do what is right and fitting. I shall give good wine, of course; but at such a time as this, that superfluous luxury ought to be dispensed with.'

'You are right, I'm sure,' said Alice; and Kitty said she should join the majority, and give her valuable vote for no champagne.

'Besides,' added Sydney, 'I'm only a sub, and it is ridiculous for me to entertain as if I were a full-blown collector or judge.'

'Never mind,' said Kitty, 'those whose opinion is worth having are sure to judge him rightly.'

The hot day wore on. Kitty undertook the decoration of the table. Not a flower was to be had, but she had made a collection of lovely ferns during her stay on the hills, and these, with the elegant wedding presents of glass, china, and silver, formed as pretty and cool-looking an ensemble as any young housewife could desire. And when the graceful little crystal fountain, throwing up a spray of rose-water, was placed in the centre, she could not refrain from calling in Sydney and Alice to join in her admiration.

The finishing stroke was the placing a dainty card to every plate, on each of which she had painted an English spring flower, the name of each guest being slipped into an opening in the top. This was a birthday present to her new brother; and Alice clapped her hands, and laughingly declared that all the station would be jealous of such recherché ways.

'Wait a bit,' said Kitty, 'it is not quite done yet; we must write the menu in French.'

'No, no; I protest against that,' said Sydney. 'Why, no one keeps up their French here, and the poor creatures would not know what we are giving them.'

'Yes,' said Alice, 'my old cook, for one, always calls croquets "coquettes!"'

'Highly improper,' said Kitty; 'what a dish to serve to the solitary bachelor coming this evening! What sort of a creature is he?'

'Hem!' said Alice.

'Hem!' said Sydney, 'judge for yourself.'

There was a sound in the veranda, between a grunt and a cough. They started round, and there was the offending grasscutter, who poised on her head a huge bundle of grass. She had been sent many miles for it, and that was the punishment for bringing false weight. The butler came up, and vouched for the grass being the proper sort, and not the coarser grass used for bullocks; and so Sultan feasted royally that evening.

The butler said confidentially to Sirs. Leigh 'That massa plenty good massa. He so just, and good sense got. He know very well, poor grasscutter must have pay, else she starve, chillen starve, then who gets grass for missus' horse?'

'See!' said Alice, turning to Kitty, 'how even the natives appreciate him.'

'I see,' said Kitty, gravely.

Quarter to eight came, lamps and wall-shades were shedding a bright light on the prettily-furnished drawing-room, the whitewashed walls of which were relieved by lovely water-colours and oil-paintings -- all wedding presents. The matted floor was dotted here and there with Persian rugs, the punkah, which was joined on to the one in the dining-room, was being pulled with long and steady strokes.

Alice, dressed in a pale blue muslin, trimmed with fleecy little cloudlets of lace, and a spray of blush roses in her hair, looked very dainty and winsome; whilst Kitty, in écrue muslin with autumn leaves, made a pleasing foil to her sister.

Sydney stepped into the veranda at the sound of carriage wheels, and brought in the lady on his arm.

The butler announced Dr. and Mrs. Menteith; and then followed in quick succession the collector (the great man of the station, and Mr. Leigh's chief), Mr. Sparrow and his 'lady' (as she was usually called), whose dress was a maroon velvet, richly trimmed with point. Velvet! how the wearer could have borne it was a marvel; the look of it was enough to make you gasp with heat. Afterwards, a missionary and his wife, belonging to the Wesleyan connection, Mr. and Mrs. Hall, and the solitary bachelor, Mr. Smith, made up the number to ten, which was all the up-country station of K -- could produce.

When dinner began Alice mentally blessed Kitty for the painted cards, which had never been seen before, and formed a fertile topic of talk, preventing that chilling silence which is sure to frighten a young matron, and make her fancy that her party is not 'going off well.'

The dinner did credit to the knowledgeable Mrs. Leigh; there was no superabundance, as is too often the case, but all was delicate, and beautifully cooked.

Mrs. Sparrow, who had always lived in luxury, delighted the proud young husband by telling him that she had never seen anything so pretty since she had been in India, and told him he was a fortunate man to have such a wife.

'Ah!' said he, 'this is a very small portion of her excellencies!'

'Mind you don't spoil her,' replied she.

'She can't be spoilt,' he answered.

'I am not so sure of that,' she said. 'Mr. Sparrow spoilt me!'

'C'est tout autre chose!' exclaimed Mr. Leigh, mentally.

There was a good deal of talk during dinner of the famine. Mr. Sparrow was telling Alice of a sad case, which he said was far from being a solitary one. A poor woman had managed to crawl from her native village, with a tribe of emaciated children, whom she was offering for sale from house to house.'

'How dreadful!' exclaimed Alice. 'How did you act?'

'I sent two peons with a bandy to take them to the hospital, where they are to be restored to strength, if possible, and fed up until they are able to be put on the relief works.'

'I am going to visit the women's hospital to-morrow,' said Mrs. Leigh, 'so I shall see how they are getting on. But what is to be the end of it all, if both monsoons fail this year?'

'Heaven only knows!' replied Mr. Sparrow. 'A water famine then would be added to the present grain one, and the sufferings of millions would be incalculable. I hear that mirages are seen daily in the B district, which is more dried up even than this.'

'What think you?' asked Mr. Leigh, 'of our great man, Sir Marmaduke Screwster? Will he solve the present difficulty?'

'That remains to be proved,' said Mr. Sparrow; 'this famine is a harder nut for our Government to crack than the former one in Bengal. We must reserve our judgment for the present. It is more a case for you doctors to decide,' bowing to Dr. Menteith.

'I am right glad,' said the latter, 'that I have not to write the minute. There's a hard head, and an able hand, and a kind heart, at the top of our profession in Madras, and he will not shrink from giving a true testimony, though it may be an unpopular one, from running counter to preconceived opinion.'

'As for us civilians,' said Mr. Leigh, 'we shall have more than enough to do in sending up our monthly official reports, in addition to all our other work.'

'Yes, indeed,' said Mr. Sparrow, with a big sigh, 'if we could only command a fresh October breeze from England, with a little spice of frost in the early morning, how braced up we should feel! There would be no grumbling or knocking up then.'

'Why, we sha'n't have enough men to get through it all, if these young fellows keep on getting sick leave at the rate they're doing now.'

'I see, sir, by the last Gazette," said Sydney, 'that there are more civilians sent down from Bengal to help.' 'All right; the more the merrier.'

And then they rose, and spent the rest of the evening in music and chat, Mr. Smith evidently admiring the rich tones of Miss Desmond's voice.

After the company had left, Sydney patted Alice on the shoulder, exclaiming -- 

'A decided success, my little woman; and do you know, Mrs. Sparrow gave me great credit for having no champagne!'

'Oh, yes, of course she did,' said Alice; 'for she likes to be the only one in the station to give it; she being the queen of our little society.'

'Now that is very naughty of you, Alice,' said Sydney; 'for she told me that she and her husband intended to curtail all luxuries whilst this miserable famine lasts, and give the money for relief.'

'Well done,' exclaimed the sisters. 'I wish every one would do the same.'

'Then the tradespeople would suffer,' said Sydney; 'and justly complain that the famine had starved them!'

'Oh, dear! how difficult it must be to cater for the whole world!' exclaimed Alice, with a sigh.

'Yes, indeed,' said Sydney, gravely. 'What each government, and each family should do, is to "gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost."'

'I know what you are thinking of,' said Alice; 'your favourite topic, the storage of water.'

'I am,' replied Sydney. 'Here, in India, the waters are the precious fragments which are, in too many districts, allowed to run to waste, through a false economy. Grand sums spent in irrigation works would pay in the end, and Government would not have to incur the expense of feeding hundreds of thousands whenever the monsoons failed.'

'But there is Kitty nodding over our state talk. Sound slumbers, and don't dream of Mr. Smith.'

'I am far more likely to dream of the famine, after the good dinner you have given me,' replied Kitty.

But soon, under the mosquito curtains and punkah, their slumbers were dreamless.

PART II. -- CAMP LIFE IN DROUGHT.

CHAPTER I.

THE RELIEF CAMP.

The scene in the early morning, a week afterwards, was a palanquin borne along at a swinging pace by six bearers, all singing a monotonous chant through their noses, improvising words to the effect, that they served a good master and a good 'missus,' who was a light little lady, easy to carry, and that if they worked well a sheep would be their reward.

Mr. Leigh and Kitty were far ahead, cantering on Akbar and Sultan, over ground in ridge after ridge, with a black and red soil, covered with stones which at midday would be burning to the touch.

Not a tree, not a shrub, not a blade of grass was to be seen.

Alice was lying in the palanquin deep in her usual morning reading, but ever and anon looking out on the Pandemonium scenery and eying wistfully the serrated outline of the distant blue hills and those nearer ones of brown and red, the foot of which was to be their home for the next week, and gladly enough she hailed at last the sight of their tents pitched in a tope of mangos near a tank. The water was nearly dried up, and the leaves of the trees were scorched and withered; but still the spot seemed like Eden in comparison of the desert which they had just crossed.

In a few minutes they were enjoying their early morning tea in the pretty Swiss tent, which was their sitting-room in camp. It was a lively scene. Their encampment consisted of about a hundred people; officials, under-writers, peons, servants and their wives and families, made up the number. The Leighs were fond of pets, and these always accompanied them. The two dogs, Caesar and Lufra, two green parrots, Tottee and Toozee, a mina, and two little gambolling kids, gave a Robinson Crusoe-like effect to the scene. The horses were soon tethered under the trees and rubbed down by the horse-keepers, whilst the grass-cutters brought the bundles of grass on their heads and salaamed low as they placed them on the ground for inspection.

In the forenoon there was a case of dacoity for Mr. Leigh to judge. A rich old native had had his house broken into, all the jewels and buried money stolen ; and loud eager voices, pro and con, came from the office tent the whole day.

Mr. Leigh had patiently to listen to swearing evidence on both sides, and sift it as best he could, giving judgment according to his own experience and knowledge of similar cases, which sometimes lasted for days, and were often sorely puzzling, owing to the entire absence of truth on both sides, even when speaking the truth would have won the cause!

The sisters, no longer in a civilised station, ventured to dress as lightly as possible, and reclined during the extreme heat of the day in easy cane armchairs, reading, writing, gasping, sighing.

At four o'clock in the afternoon a scorching wind sprang up which raised the dust and sand in whirls, and filled the tent, and even their mouths with grit.

'Isn't it enough to make a saint lose patience?' exclaimed Alice.

'Don't talk to me,' said Kitty; 'I'm as cross as two sticks. Do hark to that abominable clatter the natives make, it sets one's nerves on, tenterhooks.'

'Never mind,' said Alice, more cheerfully, 'let us have a draught of cooled lime cordial and soda-water, and we shall feel more good-tempered.'

'It will only bring out the prickly heat,' grumbled Kitty, fidgeting and rubbing her shoulders against the cane-backed chair. 'Where is your apparatus of buffalo-horn which the hawker tempted you with under the elegant term of "scratch-back"?'

'Here it is,' said Alice, producing an article like a toasting-folk; and, under the soothing operation, Kitty's vein of fun soon got the better of her cross humour.

One of the saddest effects of extreme heat is irritability of temper in excitable and energetic natures; but in phlegmatic temperaments it produces laziness and indifference, which often pass for good temper.

Before long the unwelcome sight of Mr. Smith forced them to beat a hasty retreat; but Mrs. Leigh donned the pretty chintz muslin which she had brought for Sunday in camp, and assuming a little frigid dignity, returned to the Swiss tent.

'I fear I have disturbed you and your sister,' said Mr. Smith in Wand tones.

'Not at all, thank you,' replied Mrs. Leigh. 'Only you are the first European visitor we have ever had in our wandering camp-life. Do you wish to speak to Mr. Leigh?'

'Not more than to you and your sister,' replied Mr. Smith.

'Miss Desmond will come presently,' said Mrs. Leigh. 'She thoroughly enjoys the freedom of this gipsy life.'

'Tired of civilisation?' asked Mr. Smith in drawling tones.

'Somewhat with its accompaniments,' replied Mrs. Leigh.

'What are they?' asked he.

'Oh! you extraordinary scamp!' exclaimed a cracked voice from the inside of the tent.

'You rascal I you're a goose, that you are!' came in quick succession.

Mr. Smith started. Alice laughed merrily, and was joined by Kitty, who shook hands frankly with the self-satisfied young man, who did not look, however, quite so much at ease as usual.

'Forgive my naughty mina,' said Alice.

'His language is not very choice,' he replied.

'At all events his words mean nothing,' said Mrs. Leigh.

Mr. Leigh came in presently, and after greeting him civilly, asked if he were come to see the Relief Camp.

'Oh, no!' said the officer; 'catch me going within a mile of the wretched natives. They've brought it all on themselves by their laziness. I came to try and get some sport. It is so miserably slow at K -- .'

Mr. Leigh looked at him from head to foot as if he were a curious specimen of humanity.

'I am happy to say your feeling is not shared by your brother officers. I have received a letter from Captain Selby which has quite cheered me on in my work, and is full of sound sense as to cause, effect, and remedy ; and, when the time comes, your regiment will be ready with noble help.'

'Oh I as to subscriptions,' said Mr. Smith, haughtily, 'I am always forward in them. My people at home are well known in that line.'

Mr. Leigh, changing the subject, said kindly -- 

'We can offer you a knife and fork at dinner this evening if you do not mind roughing it. Where are you putting up for the night? I am sorry we have not a spare tent.

'Thank you, you are very kind, I will accept your hospitality and then return to the C -- Bungalow, a horrible hole, only fit for a nigger; and I will change my mind and go with you to the Relief Camp tomorrow morning, it will be something to tell my people about in the home letters.'

'That is right,' said Mr. Leigh.

'Boy! Butler!'

'Coming, sar,' cried the voice. 'Coming, sar !' was heard in the distance.

'Coming, sar!' mimicked both parrots in cracked tones. Mr. Smith laughed heartily.

'One would think,' he said, 'that you had a regiment at your call.'

'Yes, it is rather deceptive, and would make people think we had a fine retinue of servants. What would not Caleb Balderston have given for such birds!'

'Boy' -- this to the dignified butler who stood before him with bowed head and folded arms awaiting orders -- 'Mr. Smith will dine with us this evening.'

'Very well, sar. Gentleman sleeping here too? Master know very well no tent got.'

'Master told you, butler, Mr. Smith dining here only,' said Mrs. Leigh impressively, to check the butler's officiousness; Mr. Smith sleeping at C -- Bungalow.'

Alice slipped away to go to her store-box, and she laid out a tin of hare-soup, a tin of salmon, and a bottle of tart fruit, gave them to cook, saying -- 'Juldee, shigram!'which magic sentence, or rather ,words, signifying, the one in Hindustani, the other in Tamil, 'quick,' had the effect of sending the old cook stumbling over his saucepans and chatties, and making the torniketch wake up from the ground of the cooking-tent, where she was rolled up in an old sheet and looked just like a mummy.

The dinner in the Swiss tent passed off very amicably. Mr. Smith was bent on making himself agreeable; and he could be sensible when not indulging in his peculiar hobby of trying to make a conquest of young ladies' affections.

Notwithstanding the dainty dishes, little was eaten, for the stifling heat took away all appetite, but claret and soda-water, cooled in the refrigerator, disappeared rapidly and seemed the only nourishment with the exception of a little curry and rice, capable of invigorating them.

They sat under the trees afterwards watching the brilliant stars, which hung like jewels in the clear, deep blue sky, but no cool night-breeze sprang up, the ground was hot to their feet, it seemed as if there were no air to enable them to breathe; a stifling oppression reigned all around, and they wearily retired to seek in vain for sleep. The chief part of the night was spent in tossing, sighing, drinking whole tumblers of water, and before dawn carrying out the cots under the trees, when a short sleep was at length attained.

The crowing of cocks, and a twittering and chattering amongst the branches, at five o'clock awoke the sleeping camp, and as there was a new road made by the coolies, Kitty went with her sister in the carriage and the two gentlemen rode.

After three miles along the the plain they arrived at the Relief Camp, which was a large, oblong enclosure, surrounded with a hedge of prickly pear to keep the natives from wandering away, which they were fain to do, in search of their favourite betel-nut for chewing.

On one side were two large pandrils, or sheds, made of bamboo poles, and the sides and roofs of matted palm-leaves.

One of these contained the women and children, and the other the men, who were being fed by Government up to working condition. On the opposite side was the hospital, made of the same materials; and further away outside, the hospital for small pox cases.

A number of peons, lascars, and others were going about attending to their several duties. The most perfect order and discipline reigned. As the party advanced the head officials came to meet them, salaaming low, and courteously conducting them into the camp. There the ladies alighted, the gentlemen dismounted, and they went first into the women's pandal, where they were seated in rows on the floor with numbers of children of all ages.

Oh! what a pitiful sight was there! From the utmost degree of emaciation up to that condition pronounced 'fit for work' by the medical officer, and that was poor enough in all conscience.

The native dresser (or apothecary) was going from one to another, examining the tongue, turning up the eyelids, feeling the pulse, and also the consistency of the flesh. Those who were judged to be in good working condition were set on one side, and marched off under some peons to the Relief Works.

There was one young girl who especially attracted their attention. She was pretty, and seemed glad to be well again. Mrs. Leigh patted her bare shoulder, and Mr. Leigh spoke a few encouraging words to her in the soft Telugu, which is called 'the Italian of the East.' She smiled at them half sadly, displaying even rows of shining white teeth, but seemed on the alert to leave the camp, in which she had been prisoner so long, and where her husband had died. Altogether she was the best specimen of the working lot.

Mr. Leigh had a kind word for all; and they seemed to look upon him as their deliverer, and their poor sunken eyes followed him as he walked from rank to rank.

The scene in the men's pandal was much the same. There was a good deal of talk with the officials, who had also reports, and sometimes complaints, to make.

The scene in the hospital baffles description. The unfortunate patients were 'living, pulsing skeletons,' their lips tightly drawn across their white teeth. Some were writhing in the cramps of cholera, others already in the state of coma from which so few awake; some were palpitating between life and death, too far gone in starvation to be restored. They were too weak to retain the restoratives gently given to them. A few might possibly recover, but the greater number would go to swell the already enormous death-rate, which was beginning to make the strongest natures shudder.

Over the loathsome objects in the small-pox hospital I draw a veil. The ladies were not allowed to enter. Mr. Leigh always accompanied the doctor, and soon became quite knowledgeable in the different stages of the disease.

On their return, they met a poor woman, an infant earned across her hip, nine children tottering after her. One little boy was staggering along, with a child of two years old in his arms. They could scarcely walk. Mr. Leigh stopped and asked their history. She said, in Telugu, 'Some of these are my sister's children. Their parents went to the Relief Works at N -- ; but it was not their home, so they died, and the children were sent back to me. My husband is dead, and I go now to the Relief Camp.'

And the pitiful procession of living skeletons staggered on, more like long-legged birds than human beings, leaving the impression on Mr. Leigh's mind that few, if any, could possibly be saved.

Mr. Smith seemed much subdued, and, as he took leave of them, thanking them for their hospitality, he said, -- 

'I am glad to have had this opportunity of seeing this distress for myself. I shall write directly to my mother' (it was not 'my people' this time), 'and when the time comes -- -for it will, surely -- for England to help, I can answer for it, my mother's gift will be a noble one.'

And they all took a kind leave of him, and as he rode away Sydney said, -- 

'There goes a sadder and a wiser man.'

A pile of papers to be read, thought over, digested, and answered, awaited Mr. Leigh in his office-tent; and after the bath and second breakfast the real business of the day began, to continue until five o'clock in the afternoon, when he would come into the Swiss tent, and lie down at full length on the carpet, near the wetted cuscus tat.

Then his wife would sit on a low chair near him and read to him till the tired eyelids winked and closed, and Alice would cover him with something light and warm to prevent a chill, and he would wake up ready for a walk with the dogs to wherever they could find any water sufficient for a swim.

The next morning, early, Mr. Leigh asked Kitty to ride with him to a village which he wished to inspect. Notice had been given of his visit. As soon as they were in sight of the mud inclosure and tiny huts out issued a procession of the natives, preceded by the headman and the reddys, all beating tom-toms, blowing cows'-horns, and tinkling triangles -- for the poor creatures knew that these visits from the assistant-collector always brought them material benefit.

When they met the villagers all salaamed low to the ground; the headman took hold of Mr. Leigh's bridle, and escorted him to the village. The whole sorry set showed their teeth whilst grinning with pleasure and wonder at the first sight of an English young lady -- riding sideways on horseback, too!

'How wonderful! Why, our women ride on oxen as we do. How can she keep on? These Europeans are very strange. They do everything better than we do, except music. There we beat them!' And a blast from a conch, which pierced every nerve in your body, and a deafening noise of tom-toms, proclaimed this superiority. How they enjoyed the noise and 'Tomasha!'

In answer to Mr. Leigh's inquiries, the reddys informed him that their village district had lost twenty per cent, in human deaths, and that 3,000 cattle had died. An evil smell pervaded the village. Mr. Leigh gave orders that the bodies should be buried a certain depth, in order to avoid pestilence, which was decimating the population equally with starvation. In one of the little alleys they came upon an old white-haired man lying on the ground. Sydney dismounted, and asked him whether he would like to be carried to the Belief Camp.

'No,' he answered, resignedly; 'it is my fate. I will die in my village.'

This was only one among many similar instances. The strong fatalism of Orientals makes any attempt at alleviating their condition very difficult. They die like sheep, and as patiently and uncomplainingly.

The several reddys in the village came with their accounts and reports. Much is in their power, for they are intrusted with a certain amount of government relief, and seldom are they found peculating.

The tahsildars are sometimes discovered receiving bribes from the ryots, and, like the publicans of old, grow rich from their ill-gotten gains. This is the reason why so much personal inspection into everything is the necessary work of European civilians.

On their return they observed a group of people on the white, dusty road, surrounding some object. They stopped to inquire the cause. and were shocked to find that the young girl whom they had seen looking so well and ready for work the day previous was stretched before them on the ground, dying.

'She was sick only once, and now she is dying,' they said. Sydney rode at full speed to his tent for arrack* and congee, + but when he, returned she was too far gone to take them. In a few minutes more the last pulse of life died away, and another victim was added.

Mr. Leigh left a peon to see that the poor body was buried deep enough to save it from being the prey of vultures and jackals, and with saddened hearts they returned to their tents.

As they entered they heard the sounds of sobbing, and on going into the bichova, or sleeping tent, they found Alice with her head buried in her hands. Her husband's arms were round her directly.

'My darling, what is it?'

But she could not answer. Kitty went to the medicine-chest, and insisted on her taking some sal-volatile, and bathed her face and hands and sprinkled her with eau-de-cologne. When she had sufficiently recovered, she said, -- 

'Oh! Sydney, I have seen such a horrible sight. I took a long walk over the fields, some way off, and wandered farther than I intended. You know I am quite accustomed now to the sight of human skulls and bones in one's path, but I was not prepared for the scene which came upon me when I crossed a nullah; there in the sandy bed were jackals scratching up recently-buried bodies, and the vultures and crows were sitting on them, tearing the flesh, and gorging themselves with the horrid feast. I looked one moment, and then rushed away as fast as I could, and I can't get the sight out of my eyes. What shall I do?'

'Dearest, we must try and see these things in a calm, philosophical, broad sort of way. We all know that the body must decay sooner or later. These poor natives have not the strength to bury their dead; so you must try to look on wild animals and birds of prey as sanitary commissioners; for, depend upon it, they are our friends, in keeping off pestilence. Everything is double, one against the other. But, dear, it is not safe for you to be wandering so far alone from camp; do not go again.'

'Well, Sydney, you do always contrive to put the worst things in a nice sort of way. I never thought there could be a common-sense view of such a horrible thing. But at the same time I hope I shall never come across it again.'

'Indeed I hope not,' said Mr. Leigh. 'What an experience for a tender, delicately-nurtured young woman!'

A sound of tinkling bells cheered them up; for it was the Tappâl; and one of the peons went to meet the bearer of the letters, who was running at a jog-trot pace, holding a staff obliquely, fitted with little bells.

'Hurrah! the Home letters!' cried Sydney; and the precious packet was sorted for the different owners, who were soon deeply immersed in their contents, each calling out from time to time some tit-bit of news or pleasant, racy remark.

Ah! how little do those in the Homeland know of the sweets and the bitters of the ' Home letters'! How the love often contained in them cheers the exiles on in the far-off land of their sojourning, and how, doubly, unkindness galls and brings them down to the dust!

'A letter from my old friend Lambert!' cried Sydney. 'What can he have to write about? Lucky fellow! with his broad acres in the right, tight little island, and his determination to do his duty.' And soon he was deep in its contents.

'Well done, John!' at last he exclaimed. 'Why, Alice, here's a fellow worthy of being a member of Parliament! He says he is quite ashamed of the way the House is emptied when India is the subject brought forward; so, as he confesses his own ignorance about it to be quite equal to that of his countrymen, he is actually coming out to make the grand tour, instead of running the risk of breaking his neck on the Alps, or of being starved whilst fishing and shooting in Norway. "I shall be sure and look you up, old fellow," he adds, "in spite of the raging famine. And I hope Mrs. Leigh will treat me to something more than bare bones, that I may not fall a victim to my laudable search after knowledge of the 'gorgeous East.'"'

'Now that is what I call a sensible man,' said Alice. 'Mamma writes : -- "I really could shake people for their absurd ignorance about India. One lady asked me the other day, 'Oh! is there really a famine there ?'"'

CHAPTER II.

SUNDAY IN CAMP.

It was the month of August, and Sunday in camp. The tents were now pitched in another 'Taluq,' on the line of rail to K -- . The early rays of the sun were flecking through a spreading banian, under which the tents gleamed white, the shadows of the large sparse leaves crossing them, and passing along the parched-up grass. Our travellers had passed some weeks in K -- , and were now again on a country tour.

'Do let us go up that pretty hill,' said Kitty, 'and look at the ruined temple; we shall have time before the sun mounts too high.'

And off they went, winding amongst red boulders, and blocks of granite, until they reached the little shrine. It was built on a platform of stone, and consisted of four pillars surmounted by a pagoda-shaped roof; rudely sculptured idols were strewn around, judging from its ruined state, it must have been long deserted. Here the trio rated, and looked round on the scene.

Ranges of rocky hills were grouped picturesquely far and near; a vast plain stretched to the east and south; waves of heat drawn upwards from the parched ground were already palpitating, and producing an ocean-like effect. Beneath these was the grove of banian trees, at that season covered with red berries, which tempted a tribe of monkeys, as well as the poor natives, who used them freely to eke out their slender portion of curry and rice. White clouds of vapour were rifling off the sides of the hills, and revealing their forms one by one. Hare and there in the landscape were seen patches of brilliant green, to which Alice drew her husband's attention.

'Ah,' he said, sadly; 'I fear they mean but little. The south-west monsoon was a failure, you know, and so the rice and grain crops have come to nought, and what you see glowing like emeralds in the sandy waste only mean a little more food for the cattle.'

'That is better than nothing,' said Alice, "for it is dreadful to see the poor beasts. I have often thought the prophet Joel must have seen much what we have done, to have made him exclaim, "How do the beasts groan!" But come, don't let us be doleful with this bright scene before us, Kitty. I've thought of something most appropriate, sag with me dear old Handel's "He shall feed His flock."'

And then from that old heathen shrine the sisters' voices alternately pealed out the noble, trustful song. Sydney went to another point and drank in the sweet tones, and felt comforted by the words of promise. Alice said -- 

'Oh! Kitty, don't you feel as if you were singing at an oratorio? I do; and what a grand audience we have in these hills!'

'Yes,' said Sydney, joining them; 'it makes me think of the metaphor of the "little hills clapping their hands."'

'I wish,' said Kitty, 'we might also add that "the valleys shall rejoice and sing." Before we go, do let us sing together Ken's morning hymn.' Mr. Leigh had a fine baritone, and was a cultivated singer.

The old hymn sounded wonderfully sweet in the solitude; it was broken once or twice by ' the wheeling kite's wild solitary cry ' above their heads, and then all was silent. It was time to return, so they scrambled zigzag down the rocks, finding Chota-Haziri laid under the trees, near a large tank, the sides of which were formed of granite steps, and in the centre stood a little open temple of stone, for purposes of sacred ablution.

Several natives were grouped on these steps. Some were poising brazen chatties on their heads, while others were washing, not only their clothes, but themselves, in the muddy, shallow water. The various coloured garments, mingled with white, glowed in the sun; and were it not for the emaciated forms and sunken faces of the wearers, the scene would have suggested busy cheerfulness.

One large tree, overhanging the tank, showed its sacred character in having a small stone platform on one side of it, on which was placed the elephant god, Ganeesha, a rude idol of black stone, smeared with ghee, and garlanded with a string of yellow flowers. Half human, half elephant, it was in a sitting posture, and before it were placed little offerings of fruit and flowers, and blotches of red paint. Part of the back of the tree was scorched by the fire which had blazed on the stone in honour of this popular idol. A woman was paid to look after it, and give it daily ablution and smearing.

Part of the forenoon was spent in joining in a portion of the Liturgy, for they did not forget the promise of the Presence granted to the two or three gathered together in the Holy Name. Besides, Alice felt very deeply this strongest of all ties, uniting east and west, north and south, the spirit of common prayer and praise. There, in the far east, they knew that about five hours afterwards their own dear ones in the north-west would be using the same words, and thinking the same thoughts. A favourite part of the little service was hymn-singing, the harmony of which was made very perfect by Kitty playing the tenor part on the flute harmonicon. Then Alice would read aloud the Christian Year, and generally supplemented it with the poem so suited to the English in India, that for 'S. Philip and S. James:'

'Her bowers are mute, her fountains dry.'

'How literally true that is here,' she said. 'And then those beautiful lines about our Lord sitting on Jacob's well, "the weary hour of noon;" one could almost think the author must have felt the utter listlessness produced by tropical heat.'

Afterwards Alice went to the book-box and laid out a choice store of Sunday reading, not heavy and dull, but well varied with biography, travel, and religious tales. The home letters were generally written on this day, for they truly said that writing was next to speaking to their dear absent ones, and they all seemed nearer to each other on that day.

In the afternoon, so glaringly hot and dry, lassitude obliged them to lie down, sometimes refreshed by a siesta, and then after five o'clock tea they were ready for a pleasant little walk with the dogs; and, after having seen the horses and poultry fed, dinner was served, followed by a shortened evensong, sacred music, and a talk in the brilliant starlight of 'many things in heaven and earth.' Alice remarked -- 

'How wisely was a banian-tree chosen as an emblem of the Colonial Church. Do look at this noble tree, it is quite a little forest in itself, ad there seems no end to its spreading by throwing down its beautiful rootlets to spring up again.'

'Yes,' said Sydney, thoughtfully; 'I love to think of little beginnings having great endings, and these all supported by the one centre. But, dear, I feel tired, -- and oh! so chilly; we must not stay out any longer.'

That night the angel of death hovered very near to the encampment. Will he prevail?

* * * * *

At midnight, Alice was roused by murmuringly faint words. She heard them as in a dream.

'I am very ill; do not be frightened, but telegraph for the doctor.'

She rose, took the light, laid her hand on his head, throbbing and burning with fever, gathered up all her faculties, all her courage, wrote the telegraphic message in a large, clear hand, and, having thrown a cloak round her, hastened to awaken a peon, and sent him to the telegraph-office, happily only half a mile distant.

She gently roused the butler and the chief servants, giving orders that the camp was to be removed to higher ground at dawn of day. Then she quickly returned to her tent, and consulting her medicine book, gave him powerful remedies, for she knew only too well how in that climate disease made rapid strides, and that but a few hours often elapsed between the first symptoms and the last.

Not till the necessity for immediate action was over did she dare to think. She could not kneel, the action would have made her sob, and she must not break down -- not yet She stood outside, looking up far, lit away into the deep sky. No words came to her lips; but oh, if ever prayer ascended like incense to the throne, surely that unuttered heart-felt prayer was hers at that moment.

The greatness and infinite holiness of God seemed borne into her, in her great anguish, and she felt a wondrous calm and strength in this hour of her greatest weakness.

Then she returned and watched him through the long hours, still and calm as a stone statue by the fever-tossed patient, who at length yielded to the influence of the remedies given, and slept profoundly.

After Kitty had retired that night to her cot under a distant offshoot of the banian-tree, she could not sleep for some time, as her fancy was stirred by watching the stars, and the curious figures formed against the sky by the branches and leaves of the trees. The constellations all occupied different places and positions from what they did in England. The Great Bear rose up straight out of the north, like an eternal question, instead of a homely plough, and Cassiopeia, the familiar W, seemed turned upside down. Then the wan of silence troubled her, for Indian nights are seldom quite still. Grasshoppers and cicalas make an endless stir and hissing noise, and tom-toms far and near are beaten almost through the night on occasions of joy or sorrow, only varied by the cries of jackals, which sound like those of a child in pain.

At length she slept, but only to dream uneasily. Surely something must be happening. What was it? The breeze just lifted her hair, which was hanging over the pillow, and swayed the branches gently; but there were figures moving slowly about, torches were gleaming among the trees, -- and was there not a pale white figure standing near? What does it all mean? Her senses were dazed; she was only half-awake, and looked spell-bound as at a phantasmagoria. What was it smoothing her hair? It made her shiver; how cold it was!

'Kitty, darling, don't be frightened; get up now; we are moving the camp to a higher spot. See, the day is just dawning.'

Kitty was now thoroughly roused; she sat up and looked at her sister. That look was enough.

'Alice; oh I Alice, he is ill. I know he is,' and she burst into tears.

'Hush! darling. He is sleeping; but the palanquin is ready for him, and the carriage for us. Be quick and dress. We must change the air. Don't kiss me yet; I mustn't break down. There -- there -- that's a brave girl,' as Kitty sprang from her cot, and ran to her tent to dress. On awaking, Sydney said, feebly -- 

'I am better,' and expressed his willingness to be carried into the palanquin.

The sisters were quite silent during the drive. Several times Alice alighted, and, walking by her husband, found that the early morning air was reviving him, especially as their way led them to higher ground, where they found their tents already pitched, and ' early tea' prepared; letters, newspapers, and even their favourite books at hand.

Sydney was tenderly laid on a couch, and when he smiled lovingly on his wife, and said -- ,

'This change of air has saved me: I shall do now,'

Her joy was too great for words. She could only hold his hand first, and he felt in that clasp all she had gone through. Softly, after they had taken refreshment, she read to him the morning psalms, and her heart was full, and her utterance very trembling, when she lighted on the verse, 'Thou hast turned my heaviness into joy; Thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness.'

After a long silence she went quietly about her household avocations, Kitty keeping watch during her absence.

About noon, the carriage, which she had sent to the station to meet the doctor, returned with him, to her great comfort, for the responsibility of baring had to act entirely out of her own resources weighed heavily on her mind. However, that was speedily removed by Dr. Menteith declaring that had he been present, nothing more could have been done.

'Your prompt decision in removing up here was very wise, Mrs. Leigh,' said he. 'The stagnant water of the tank must have been malarious, and the prettiest spots are those which are lowest and most unhealthy. But now, Mr. Leigh, I must interdict all work for some days to come. Yes; I know that means that the work will accumulate; but as you pick up you must do it by degrees as your strength will allow. Mrs. Leigh, I trust to you to carry out my instructions.'

'Well,' said Sydney, with a weary sigh, 'then my reports must be delayed.'

'They must indeed,' replied the doctor, gravely; 'if you are to write them at all. Many young fellows are knocking up from the strain of work and anxiety, and it depends much on your own care of yourself whether you will not be obliged to ask for sick leave.'

'Anything but that,' replied Sydney. 'I do want to stick on to the last.'

'Bravely said !' answered the doctor. 'Now I shall stay with you until the evening train, and not leave you then unless I can feel that yon are on the fair road to recovery.'

No relapse ensuing, and full instructions having been given, the kind doctor left them, first making Alice promise that she would rest i part of the night whilst Kitty and the ayah kept watch.

A week afterwards Mr. Leigh had sufficiently recovered to go with his wife in the carriage to visit the relief camp, where they saw 600 people fed. But they observed many an open bier waiting at the hospitals, and many more being carried away with their dead freights scathed only in the cloth which they had worn when living. They also noticed, with sad hearts, on their way back, several children going about full of small-pox, and staggering natives, who looked more like adjutants than human beings, with bodies bloated with dropsy, or else in a collapsed condition. Sydney sighed, and said -- 

'All this work seems in vain; the death-rate becomes more and more formidable, and the famine is assuming such gigantic proportions, that it is more than we can deal with.'

'We won't say fail yet,' said Alice, brightly. 'You will soon recover your strength, and then feel able to grapple with your work. In the meantime, your sheristadar has been going on steadily under your eye, so I do hope you will overtake the accumulation business by degrees.'

'Look there,' cried Sydney, quite animated; 'what is that? Why there are actually two tents near the banian-trees, only higher up than our former encampment.'

'It is strange and unusual,' said Alice. 'It must be some sportsmen.'

And impelled by curiosity, they ordered the coachman to drive round in that direction.

PART III. -- CAMP LIFE IN THE RAINS.

CHAPTER I.

THE SUDDEN DOWNPOUR.

'Boy!' cried a cheery voice from one of the tents, 'take this basket of vegetables and box of ice quickly to Mr. and Mrs. Leigh, with this letter.'

'Yes, sar!' replied the maty.

'And butler, send up the bandy at once with the thermantidote.'

'Very well, sar!'

'Alice, I declare that is Lambert's voice!'

'Impossible!' said she.

'But it is, though. Here, Ghorawallah, take my card to the sahib.'

And in another minute Mr. Lambert hastened out of his tent, and grasped his friend's hand.

Alice was so pleased at this unexpected meeting, that she forgot all ceremony, and shook hands with him heartily.

In answer to their eager inquiries, he informed them that on landing at Madras, he had written to K -- , announcing his arrival; but receiving no answer, and hearing of Mr. Leigh's illness, he had hastened to K -- , found the house locked up, inquired their whereabouts, and had started at once on their track.

'I was sure,' he added, 'that the best thing I could do to drive out this horrid fever was to bring you plenty of ice and vegetables from the Presidency, and promote good sleep at night by a thermantidote, which I have just taken the liberty of sending up to you.'

'Just like your former self,' said Sydney, 'it will set me up above everything; and your company, old fellow, is better than any amount of doctor's stuff. When will you come to us?'

And Alice echoed her husband's invitation.

'I will come to ten o'clock breakfast with pleasure. But I hear you are all musical, so may I bring my wife?'

'Your wife?' said Sydney, surprised; 'I heard you were engaged, but had no idea that you were married.'

'My wife is my violoncello!' he replied, laughing; 'we are inseparables, and I look forward to some very delightful music with you all.'

'Bring her by all means,' said Alice, merrily. 'Why, Sydney, you are getting well already. Let us hasten home now, that I may give you some tea before it all melts. How good of you, Mr. Lambert, to think of those very things he has been longing for.'

On their return, Sydney was like a child with the ice, taking it in his hands, pressing it to his lips and his forehead, exclaiming -- 

'This is the thing for a true-born Briton! Come, little wife, you shall have your share, too, and so shall Kitty.'

They did not refuse, knowing how it would enhance his pleasure to see them enjoy the delights of real cold. When the thermantidote was duly fixed outside the wet cuscus blind, and on the wheel being turned, sent cool currents of air through the tent, they thought themselves, as they said, 'in luck's way.'

The sisters had put on pretty chintz muslin dresses, and their favourite pale blue ribbons; and Alice had added a dainty dish here and there to the breakfast-table, and not omitted to put a lump of ice amongst the pats of butter, which were usually in a half-melting state.

Punctually to a minute, Mr. Lambert entered. He was a man of middle height, broad-shouldered, and athletic; his features were plain, but his expression was good, full of determination and purpose. He was dressed in a light grey sporting suit, and behind him toddled a short, fat butler, with a comical look in his keen little eyes, bearing the violoncello in a case as big as himself, which be had just taken from the hands of a horsekeeper. They formed a merry party, very different to what they had been of late, struggling with a sense of weakness and failure.

Alice was delighted to see her husband making a really hearty breakfast, and was not surprised to hear him express his determination to return to office that very day; for there were prisoners and petitioners both waiting; and Mr. Lambert requested that he might be admitted. 'For,' said he, 'I must make the most of my time, and learn all I can, pestering you with questions; and then in the evening we will ask the ladies to give us some music, for it sha'n't be a case of "all work and no play." We must be sharp, not "dull boys."'

After breakfast, the butler came in, saying -- 

'Please, missus, coming quickly, ayah, plenty crying. Bad pùchi biting.'

Alice ran into the ayah's shed, and found her rocking to and fro, and 'plenty crying.' She had been stung by a scorpion; the ugly creature had been caught, and lay wriggling about. It was not more than two inches long, and of a red colour, very different from the huge black lobster-like scorpion, but it had the reputation of being more venomous.

In an instant, Alice was at her medicine chest, from which she took ammonia and chloroform, and steeped them in cotton-wool.

This she applied to the wound, and wrapped the foot in bandages, so as to exclude the air. In a few minutes the ayah was out of pain; she rolled herself in a sheet on her mat, and was soon fast asleep.

On Alice's return, in came the maty, saying -- 

'Please, missus, Ghorawallah saying he plenty bad, he want some of missus' doctor-shtuff.'

Mr. Leigh laughed heartily, and said to Mr. Lambert -- 

'This little wife of mine, ever since her wonderful treatment of my case, is quite looked up to, I assure you. My belief is, one of our servants gets sick every day in turn, to test her curative powers.'

'What fun!' said Mr. Lambert. 'Well, Mrs. Leigh, how are you going to treat this case?'

'I must see my patient first,' she answered.

'Compose your face to gravity, then,' said Kitty, 'for to see him is to laugh.'

'May we come, too?' asked Mr. Lambert, as Alice stepped into the part of the tent which formed a sort of veranda.

'By all means, if you like,' said she.

There stood the Ghorawallah 'Chinna-tumbi,' and nothing could well he uglier; it was marvellous how he could contort his features as he did.

Alice saw at once by his unchanged complexion that there was nothing really the matter, although he kept patting his chest and body, as if his sufferings were great. So she mixed him a very harmless dose, well sugared, which she brought in a cup, and with a large pewter spoon the maty poured it down his capacious mouth -- for it was against his caste to take it out of her cup, and it was most ludicrous to see his efforts to avoid touching the spoon!

They were all convulsed with laughter; but he, quite intent on the sole purpose of swallowing the magic draught, was entirely unconscious of the effect of his action, and afterwards he stroked his hands Alternately down his chest, murmuring -- 

'Plenty good, salaam, missus,' the only English words he knew, which he had learned for the occasion. He then walked away, bent double; and in a few minutes was rolled up in his cloth under a tree, sleeping as soundly as the ayah.

'What was that horrible-looking decoction you gave him?' asked Mr. Lambert, still laughing.

'I must not reveal the secrets of my art,' said Alice, archly; 'but you may rest assured it can't hurt him.'

In the evening, after Alice had sung some quaint Spanish boleros to her guitar, and the sisters had given one of their choicest duets, Kitty thought she saw something moving up the violoncello case. She took a light, and went cautiously up to it, and gently tilting it up, exclaimed -- 

'Oh! do look at this swarm of white-ants, eating their way as quickly as they can through your case.'

Mr. Lambert's look of dismay was comical, and Kitty could hardly refrain from laughing, but she ran out, brought back a duster and a basin of hot water, and the offending insects, with the débris they had made, were soon swept into the basin.

'Treasure trove for the maty,' said Kitty.

'What do you mean?' asked Mr. Lambert.

'I shall give the mischievous insects to him, and he will make them into curry.'

'Hardly enough for a dish,' said Alice. 'Wait till after rain, then they will fly swarming in, and, dropping their long gauzy wings, will crawl about everywhere, up your arms, over your face and neck, till you are nearly wild. It is really a case of retributive justice that they should be curried!'

'But do English people eat this curry?'

'I should think not,' said Kitty, laughing, 'though I believe one hardier than his fellows has ventured, and pronounced it very good.'

The precious instrument was swathed and wrapped up like an infant, to prevent the hot winds from cracking the wood.

Mr. Lambert played well; and when Sydney joined the ladies in some favourite glee or madrigal, Kitty found that the tenor part which she had been used to put in on her harmonium was so well taken by Mr. Lambert, that her performance was quite needless.

The maty was careful to put four stones under the violoncello case. which would be quite enough to prevent any further ravages from the white ants.

Many days passed happily away, Mr. Lambert being of real use to his friend in the writing line. He made a map of the different taluqs, and took a list of all the tanks, channels, wells, villages, and roads, so that he was learning daily something of a civilian's work. One morning he said to Sydney -- 

'Now that you are strong and well again, Leigh, I think I had better travel about and see more of the country. Besides, between you and me, I came out to be of some use. Now I see in the papers that a few gentlemen have volunteered their services to government, and now that England has begun to take the deepest interest in this terrible famine, and is sending out subscriptions, I had better place my few hundreds at the disposal of government at once, with the offer of such help as I can render.'

'My dear Lambert, we shall be very sorry to part from you, but I, for one, can't keep you from your noble purpose. You are no ignoramus now.'

'That's your doing, old fellow; the sight of your work prompted me to try what I could do.'

They all wished him God speed, and he departed with the inward determination that when he required rest and recreation, he would seek them in their camp; and what better hostage could he have left in their charge than his musical 'little wife'?

It was early in October; heavy masses of clouds kept rolling around and passing away; the atmosphere was oppressive and stifling, an exaggeration of the feeling before a storm. The Leigh's encampment was pitched some miles further on, near a rocky gorge; between the ranges of hills the sandy dry bed of a river wound its tortuous course.

They were charmed with the scenery; Kitty. said it was quite idyllic.

'Now, Alice, please don't say I mustn't go, for I really must mount that hill, and see the sunset. I shall not be long away.'

'Well, if you must, you must, and there's an end of it. But don't forget the time, and pray remember that one peak leads on to another.'

'Practice makes perfect,' said Kitty, merrily, and tripped off.

Sydney had gone in another direction to shoot partridges.

Kitty's way led her up among the usual boulders and loose stones, and soon she looked down on the bed of sand winding in the ravine; on the opposite side stood a ruined temple, with several sculptured pillars and niches -- on, on she went, bent on reaching the top, which seemed to recede as she climbed. At length she attained the summit, and looked around. A wild but beautiful panorama was before her. Ranges of blue serrated hills in the far distance -- rounded forms, red, brown, and purple mid-way -- beneath her, wide stretches of plain, mapped out in cultivation. She knew that paddy, cholum, and other cereals had been sown, and were only waiting for the north-east monsoon to make the 'wilderness blossom like the rose.'

Bat the scene was too lovely for her to indulge in melancholy thoughts and fears, that perhaps those long-expected rains might never fall. Her heart was full of thankfulness for the beauty of the earth, and she poured forth her happy spirit in song after' song, the echoes of which she almost fancied she could hear in faint reverberations among the hills.

The sun was setting in a perfect sea of glory, rose-coloured ether palpitating with light, passing into sea-green and pearly grey. Huge masses of clouds in deep perspective were of every imaginable colour, rainbow tints and grotesque forms suggesting any variety of pictures ad strange combinations.

Kitty was fascinated, and looked on and on. In another moment the great crimson orb went down, and then, when too late, she remembered the short duration of the tropical twilight. But she was nimble of foot, and without trusting herself to look again at the gorgeous spectacle above her head, ran down the hill, the loose stones keeping her company; out of breath at last, she rested a minute, and saw with dismay how the purple and grey shadows stole rapidly over all the scene which had been lately so brilliant with glittering light and colour. Then she tried a shorter cut, but it was steeper, and led her amongst brambles and rocks, so she was glad to grope back into a more open part. Her heart began to beat painfully, but she kept plodding downwards, in the direction of the lights in the camp. More than once she stumbled; and the dread seized her that she might fall down a little precipice. She remembered how far sound was said to carry among the hills, so she called wildly for help; and then listening, to her great joy, she heard a voice in the distance -- 

'Where are you? I am coming!'

She put her hands on each side of her mouth, and jodelled in Alpine fashion -- listened again; yes, it was answered by another jodel. Was it not too high for Sydney's voice? She sat down on a rock, and, in a few minutes, to her great joy, she saw the glimpse of a lantern coming towards her. She rose to meet it, and in another minute her hand was grasped in John Lambert's strong brown palm.

'I am glad I have found you at last,' said he. 'How frightened jour sister will be. Are you hurt?'

'How could you know I was here?' asked Kitty.

'I thought my violoncello must want tuning, and I wanted a little shooting after all my hard work; and lastly I heard your voice, and its echoes among the hills; so could I do better than track the sound?'

She was silent.

'Take my arm,' he said. 'This path is too rough for little feet.' And they passed on towards the torches which were now glimmering in all directions.

The whole encampment seemed astir. At the foot of the hill, numbers of natives came out of a little village, with lights, and when they saw the young English girl, every one of them stood still and laughed. Never before had they seen a 'European woman.'

Kitty was much diverted by their amusement; but Mr. Lambert hurried her through the crowd, and prevented them from following, by scattering some small coins, for which they scrambled, and in a short time they were within hailing distance of the tents.

Mr. Leigh met them, and was delighted to welcome back his old friend, whose tents he had passed in the evening, and had been told by the butler that his master had gone on a shikàr.

Alice was watching outside her tent, shading her eyes with her hand, so as to peer out into the darkness.

'Oh! Kitty! Kitty! I told you so! I knew you would lose yourself, and I have been so anxious and unhappy about you, fancying you carried off by a cheetah, or bitten by a snake.'

She almost forgot Mr. Lambert, so pre-occupied was she. But on Kitty's kissing her, and telling her that if Mr. Lambert had not found her, she would truly have been benighted, then Alice welcomed him with her usual heartiness.

Dinner was laid for four in the well-lighted Swiss tent.

Kitty soon made her appearance, dressed in white muslin; all traces of fear had passed away from her face, and she looked bright and rosy.

There was the violoncello case in the corner, mounted on a stand of teak-wood, which Alice had employed a village carpenter to make, as white-ants will not go near teak, for which reason beams and rafters are made of that wood. There was a great deal to be mutually related.

Mr. Lambert had travelled in the most out-of-the-way places with government relief, and had succeeded far better than he had expected, having taken a moonshee with him, who acted as interpreter, and proved a very intelligent companion.

He had been greatly interested in seeing some of the public works, orders for which the government had multiplied of late, for it had wisely come to the conclusion that this was not a time to stint in expenditure.

The following afternoon heavy sultry clouds rolled up; there was a delicious smell of rain.

They all looked out of the tent with longing eyes, in full expectation of seeing great thunder-drops fall on the thirsty land. But no! there was only a howling sound of distant wind; the sun glared over a dark cloud, and they saw, whirling along in the distance, columns of sand which seemed sixty feet high. Had they been in a house, the servants would have hastened in, to shut every door and window. Now, the lascars only came to tighten the tent-ropes, strengthen the stakes and close down the flaps and openings.

The party entered the tent, and the dust-storm passed over it, leaving particles of sand everywhere, and on everybody, but clearing the atmosphere of the dead weight which had been so oppressive.

In a few minutes the servants entered with dusters, and the sweeper with her broom, and the cheerful little tent was soon restored to its usual cleanliness and order.

The next place of encampment was in a grove of palms, a few miles off.

The lascars had pitched the tent below the bund of a large tank. This, however, had been lately inspected and repaired, and as there was scarcely any water, there was no damp. Mr. Lambert's tents were on a high bank near.

That night Kitty woke up suddenly. A din, as of a hundred watchman's rattles, caused by the croaking of the frogs, sounded in her ears. The flood-gates of heaven were open; down came the rain in torrents! There was a rushing of waters and voices everywhere. The sword-like leaves of the hundreds of palms swayed and clashed together, as if armies had closed in mortal conflict. Peals of thunder sounded like salvos of artillery, the lightning came down in sheets of flame, with little intermission. In the midst of these sheets of light, blue and white forked lightning darted, as if they were lances thrown here and there by invisible hands.

Kitty trembled; she used to love watching storms in England, but they were as nothing when compared to this, and now she was thoroughly frightened.

She sat up, and, to her dismay, the night light dimly burning, revealed the waters welling into the tent. Little wavelets were dashing up against the feet of her cot.

In another moment, she sprang out of bed, put on her waterproof and called to her sister, whose answer only just sounded through the storm.

'Come in, dear, Sydney is giving orders to the peons and servants.'

The sisters, closely wrapped up, sat holding each other, watching the rising of the water, and expecting every moment Sydney to enter with the order to escape for their lives. The tent shook, the ropes were straining to get free, the rain dripped through the canvas.

The uproar was terrific. It seemed as if 'deep called unto deep.' They were awe-stricken and silent, but each prayed to Him 'Who sitteth above the water-flood, and remaineth a king for ever.'

Mr. Leigh had stationed the peons and servants on the bund, to mark if the water arose beyond a certain height, and to see if there were any escapement through the bund, the danger being lest it should break down, and the waters inundate the low-lying land.

Mr. Lambert, who had joined him at the first, said that he had made every arrangement to receive the ladies in one of his tents, in case of their being obliged to fly from their own.

'But what a night for them. Leigh, I have taken upon myself to have your palanquin all ready for them, with the bearers, if the worst come to the worst, for you have had enough to do in seeing to the tank.'

'Always a friend in need!' said Sydney.

'Don't you think your wife and sister must be frightened? Did you ever hear such a din?'

'Yes, I have; but it is new to them, especially to Kitty.'

'Do just go in and see if they are all right. I will keep watch here.'

Sydney went, and it was a great relief to the sisters to hear of the preparations made for their safety.

At dawn a peon reported that the waters of the tank were not rising above the high-water mark, so it was thought best that the tents should remain where they were, a trench being dug all round to prevent more water from coming in.

A break in the downpour occurred in the morning, when they removed to the higher ground, the ladies going in the palanquin. And it was with thankful hearts that they all acknowledged their deliverance from 'perils of waters.'

PART III -- CAMP LIFE IN THE RAINS.

CHAPTER II.

HELP FROM ENGLAND.

In a few days the weather was bright again.

The change that had passed over the landscape after that night of deluge was magical. The yellow plains had 'flushed' into green, the nullahs were full, the winding course of sand in the ravine was a rushing river, the tank had spread itself into a lake, the banks were already clothed with grass, the leafy crown of the palms had changed from a sickly yellow to many shades of green. The spirits of our party rose in proportion, feeling invigorated by the beautiful change in air and scene, and looking hopefully forward to better times coming for the poor starving multitudes.

The hours passed away happily. When business was over they took long rides, or discovered fresh walks, and in the evening passed the time in pleasant talk and music.

One morning, as Kitty was bending over her work, Alice said to her rather anxiously: 'Katrina dear, don't you think that you and Mr. Lambert pair away from us a little too much? You mustn't forget that he is engaged, you know, to a Lady Cecilia Somebody -- I forget her name.'

'Never you fear,' said Kitty, demurely, 'that is why I feel so at home with him I suppose. I assure you our friendship is splendidly platonic!' And to avoid further talk on the subject, Kitty rose and went away; and her sister looked anxiously after her.

That evening, after five o'clock tea, Alice and her husband were seated together on the bund of the tank. The palm-grove lay beneath and covered many an acre. The sun's rays glinted through its green shade.

'Sydney,' said Alice, 'only look ! -- there are Kitty and Mr. Lambert pairing off again. It is vexing; for only to-day I warned Kitty. Don't you think they are overdoing it?'

'Not a bit of it,' said Sydney, laughing.

'Why, Sydney! when there is Lady Cecilia?'

'Lady Cecilia is a myth.'

'What do you mean?'

'I mean that Lambert is the soul of honour, and as true as steel; so don't vex yourself, Alice.'

'Dear me! and do you really think he cares for Kitty in that way?'

'Ay, that I do, as much as I care for my little wife, and that's saying something.'

But was it so? Let us join the two in the grove. What are they talking about so earnestly, with long spaces of silence between? They are actually discussing politics -- a silence -- then, the famine -- another pause -- next the weather -- silence again. Kitty always began the conversation. Presently she was startled by her companion muttering -- 

'Further from my point than ever.'

'What is the matter?' said Kitty, wonderingly. He said suddenly -- 'Is not this grove like a cathedral?'

'It is a "pillared shade," and has a "dim religious light,"' said Kitty, demurely.

'Yes. Look at those coloured hues of sunset crossing behind those tall dark stems -- half close your eyes -- they are like painted windows. What a place for a troth plight!'

And then he stopped suddenly, and looked at her, saying -- 

'I have loved you from the first. Will you be my wife?'

She looked coyly up into his face.

'I thought there was a Lady Cecilia?'

'A Lady Cecilia! Why, she is my "little wife!"'

'Oh! indeed!' And a happy smile dimpled her face; but she was silent.

'I have not called my violoncello Lady Cecilia for some time; it was an old college joke, and gave rise to the report that I was engaged.'

And then his words came fast enough; and after honestly expressing all his love for her, he took her hand in his, saying, pleadingly, 'Do you not think I can make you happy?'

One little pause, and she said, very low, 'Yes, very happy!' And lie put his arms round her, and kissed her. And so John Lambert and Catherine Desmond were betrothed in the cathedral-like palm-grove.

After this, it must be confessed, their conversation was less varied: how long they lingered -- how much they had to say to each other! The great red moon shone between the dark stems; the fire-flies gleamed on her hair and over her white dress, as the lovers walked on. At last they heard Sydney's voice calling them to the very mundane act of dining, and they entered the tent trying to look quite unconcerned.

A servant was standing as usual behind each chair with folded arms, so nothing was said; and it was certain that Sydney and Alice had to carry on the conversation. But when the chairs were arranged outside in the moonlight, and the servants had 'gone to rice,' Mr. Lambert took Kitty's hand, and led her to Sydney and Alice, saying, 'Congratulate me -- she has consented to be my wife.'

How happy they all were, feeling so well suited to each other!

'What about Lady Cecilia?' asked Alice, archly.

'Lady Cecilia must play second fiddle now,' said Mr. Lambert.

'When first I heard Kitty's voice, I said to myself, "There's a chord in it like hers;" but, oh! how superior.'

'Kitty,' said Alice, 'What has become of your friendship so "splendidly platonic"?'

The north-east monsoon at length broke so heavily, that our travellers were obliged to break up their camp and return to K -- .

Twenty inches of rain had fallen in the Presidency. Crops were growing, money was pouring in from England, sickness and starvation were on the decrease, coolies were leaving the Relief Works in order to labour in the fields, and prospects were brightening. Mr. Lambert had forced himself away for a while to go on with his volunteer work of relief. Kitty read with much delight in the papers of the Queen's telegram to the Lord Mayor, expressing her pleasure at the way in which her people were sending out help to their starving fellow-creatures in the East.

'Well, I do say,' said Kitty, 'that she is worthy to be Empress of India, as well as Queen of England. She has a motherly heart of her own, for wherever there is sorrow she has sympathy for it, whether it be for buried miners or for starving Indians.'

'Hear, hear,' cried the voice she loved; 'I shall put that into my first speech on the Indian Question next Session. I'm sure it will bring down the house!'

'Now, John, you are not to laugh at my loyalty!'

'Laugh at it! Not I, indeed! But, Sydney, I have learnt one thing beyond what you have taught me; that sight of bales upon bales of rice lying on the M -- beach useless, for want of sufficient means of carriage into the interior, has convinced me that more railways are as necessary for the prevention of famine as further irrigation. On inquiry it has been found, that during years of plenty the natives won't pay for the water, and so the irrigation works become useless expense.'

'But still, the great Anicuts on the Godavery and Canvery rivers are standing proofs that these works convert deserts into fruitful fields,' answered Sydney, unwilling to forego a tithe of his favourite theory of the storage of water, so ably advocated by some of our best engineers. 'But still, I quite agree with you,' he added, 'on the desirability of doubling the lines of rail, and opening out all the resources of this grand country, especially as our Astronomer predicts that we may expect a scarcity every eleven years; absence of spots in the sun evidently causing dearth in the tropics.'

Kitty had slipped away during this 'State talk,' as she called it: and came back presently with a little pink bundle in her arms.

'Do look, John, isn't she a darling? See her brown fluffy hair! I declare she is greeting you with a smile.'

He looked first at one, and then at the other, with great admiration, and kissed the infant as gently as if he feared his touch would break it to pieces.

'Don't you know,' said Kitty, exultingly, 'I am to be godmother, and you her godfather, and she is to be christened in the M -- Cathedral?'

'Where we are to be married, darling, directly afterwards,' said John.

'Yes,' said Alice, who had just entered. 'Will not the beautiful white pillars of the Cathedral recal in contrast the dark pillars of the palm grove?'

* * * * *

The rains had done their beneficent work on the famine-stricken land; perhaps years of plenty may now succeed the past year of drought. But has all the suffering -- has all the dearth, been for nought? Will not God's usual work of bringing good out of evil still hold true? One issue of good is already seen. It is said that about 500,000 children are now thrown on the protection of Government and a quarter of these are supposed to be orphans. It does seem as if it were an opportunity, not to be lost, for breaking through caste in their case, though such a step must be taken wisely and discreetly.

An Orphanage has lately been established by the 'Madras Ladies' Association,' Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, in Sullivan's Gardens, where a hundred orphan girls are to be trained as Christians. And another for boys, it is hoped, will soon be established by the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel. It takes about 5l. a year to support and educate one girl.

In a political point of view, it must be acknowledged that the famine has brought out and developed powers of ruling, exemplified in schemes of finance, organization, and opening out the resources of the country.

Honour to the noble workers, from the highest in the land to the army of civilians who toiled on through that long season of drought and difficulty, often in discouragement and disappointment, as well as in sickness and peril of death. It is in such troublous times that men show of what stuff they are made.

And another consequence of good surely may be seen in the noble sympathy and help from the Golden Land, -- Old England, illustrating the words of the Prophet -- 'When Thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.'

K.

Note. -- Since writing the foregoing tale, the following Missionary intelligence has been received from Southern India : -- 'Bishop Caldwell, assistant to the Bishop of Madras, writes, "There have been accessions from heathenism in almost all the congregations already in existence, in addition to the new people in the congregations newly formed; and the number of souls added to the roll in both classes of congregations since the 30th of June last has now reached 16,000." This is the fruit of Christian lore and beneficence (may we not add, of Christian prayer?) in one district in the east of Tinnevelly during the late season of famine and distress.'