DOBSON'S DAUGHTER.

His daughter, with her mother's eyes!

CHAPTER I.

FOOCHOW was convulsed, was rent in pieces, by a new excitement.

The port was going to sleep commercially, that was certain; but it was always astir socially. True, it was so far away both from Shanghai and from Hong Kong, that it was out of the wash, so to speak, of their social revolutions. But this very distance from the great Eastern centres of fashionable typhoons had given Foochow, in commotions, an individuality of its own.

Foochow, had its own particular favourites, leaders of fashion, etiquette, and laws of precedence. In short, it had everything that renders a port formidable to a new-comer and delightful to an old resident.

For Foochow had its old residents, the list of whom was headed by the British Consul and his wife, who had adorned the port for the last fifteen years. On the other hand, among the shifting population, i.e. amongst those who made no permanent mark on Foochow society, would have to be reckoned the entire Customs' staff. The Commissioners at any rate had been mostly antiquated, out-of-date men, who looked upon this place as their last post in China, and occupied themselves solely with piling dollars against their coming retirement. The assistants had been either rabid sinologues or affable bachelors. From all of which it ought to follow that Foochow was a most peaceable port, a haven of rest to be sighed after by luckless officials whose lines had fallen in places renowned for quarrelling. And yet it was not so, nor had it been so during the memory of that generation.

What they were constantly quarrelling about (by "they" be it understood the foreign residents) was indeed a puzzle to outsiders. Such trivial things would start a blaze. Now it would be one lady taken in to dinner before another one; or one not asked to sing at a concert; or an invitation worded unceremoniously. At any rate, and in every case, something to do with a woman. There were too many of them in Foochow, so the most abandoned bachelor, Matthew Dobson, declared. They were all jealous of each other, all trying to oust each other, all slandering each other. But then Matthew Dobson was a pronounced woman-hater, a man whose good opinion no woman ever tried to cultivate.

Men, perhaps, thought better of him. He was about fifty, and the head of the largest tea-hong in Foochow, He had a lovely house, with a fine view across the river to the Swiss-looking Chinese city on the opposite bank. He knew more about tea-tasting than any other man in the place. And yet he was hated by the ladies, because he hated them.

And it was about this same Matthew Dobson that the excitement was now raging. He, who had not entered a lady's door in Foochow since time unknown, had actually gone and called on the new Commissioner's wife.

The new Commissioner, like all his predecessors, was a man whose career in China was drawing to a close. An amiable, if somewhat feeble-minded man, he had been an immense favourite during a great number of years. Then, after having stuck to his post for some ten or twelve years, he went home on leave, and returned married. Very much married, his most intimate friends said with a good-natured laugh at first. Too much married, they said after a year's experience of Mrs. Bradley; pitiably under his wife's thumb, after three years; poor fellow, how marriage can ruin even the sweetest and best of tempers! after ten years. But then, on the other hand, Mrs. Bradley had been singularly unfortunate in the society into which she had been thrown since her arrival in the East. Each port had held some one, if not more, dreadful specimen of humanity. It was quite astonishing how her ill-luck had followed her. For instance, such an out-of-the-way port as Wenchow had always been looked upon as perfectly peaceful till Mrs. Bradley arrived. The foreign residents, including of course infants in arms, scarcely amounted to a score. And yet before she had been there six months the place was utterly unbearable. The dearest friends were bitterest foes. Yet, who was responsible for the ill-feeling? Certainly not kind-hearted Mrs. Bradley!

Still, a very doubtful report of her temper had preceded Mrs. Bradley's arrival in Focochow. For the last five years she had adorned (and made a Gehinnom of, said her enemies,) one of the smaller southern ports. During the early days of her sojourn there, accounts of various festivities, in which her name had figured largely, had appeared in the Hong Kong papers. For she was undoubtedly a most energetic woman, and the community had need of a little stirring up. But then came the seemingly inevitable reaction. Mrs. Bradley tried the patience of some lady {her quarrels invariably began with her own sex) too much. The lady complained, and appealed to some champion of the opposite sex. He took up the quarrel. Mr. Bradley was made to take up his wife's quarrel. And then followed -- what had always followed in other ports -- mutual recriminations, slanderings, insults in public, threats of legal proceedings, apologies, reconciliations, fresh hostilities, reports of proceedings to headquarters, and finally, the transfer of the Bradleys to Foochow, in order, it was whispered, to punish or spite some other official who had offended some one of the wire-pullers at some distant place.

It must be supposed that Matthew Dobson knew just as much about the Commissioner and his wife as every one else in Foochow knew. He was a member of the Club, and went, there regularly every evening at 7 o'clock for his sherry and bitters. He had, of course, called on the Commissioner in his office. And yet Mrs. Bradley had scarcely been in the place a month before he went and paid her a regular state visit, on her "day," and just before the whole fashionable world of Foochow assembled there.

Thereby he naturally offended some of his best and oldest friends. It had come to be so generally recognised in Foochow that Mr. Dobson did not call on ladies that there was not a wife among them who objected to her husband's intimacy with this person so sadly lacking in taste. All the ladies were in the same condemnation. But this call, in due form, ushered in by a card from what was evidently a new copper-plate, was a gross insult to the older residents at Foochow. So at any rate the ladies said, and to this opinion there was only one dissentient voice, naturally that of Mrs. Bradley herself.

The matter was discussed fully the next day at what was a regular institution in Foochow -- the Ladies' Working Party, in aid of the local Chinese hospital. This L.W.P. had been started by a missionary's wife, and had at first been much looked down upon by society in general, as not emanating from the Consulate. But when the missionary's wife succumbed to dysentery, the reins of management fell, as a matter of course, into Mrs. Curtis's hands. And from that day forward every lady in Foochow had belonged to the Working Party.

It was, indeed, quite a mark of being in society, equivalent to-being elected by ballot to a Club, to belong to this Working Party. In former years, under missionary superintendence, it had met, once a week, at the various houses of the different members. Mrs. Curtis had improved on this plan. The class now always met at the Consulate. Formerly, too, it had opened with a Bible reading, continued with scandal and local gossip, and ended with tea, cakes, and prayer, the latter conducted by the estimable missionary herself. Mrs. Curtis, with a fine perception of the fitness of things,; had abolished the Bible reading and prayer, and had introduced fancy work as an adjunct to the plain sewing of uncouth Chinese garments insisted on by her predecessor. And by these means she conciliated all the creeds. For no one in Foochow ever dreamed of quarrelling with Mrs. Curtis. Her husband, it is true, often quarrelled with various leading merchants; but his wife, never. She got her own way, somehow or other, but not by such vulgar means as quarrelling. Indeed, no one who saw her could imagine her as anything but kind-hearted, gossiping; but, so far as malice went, harmless. Her tongue might do mischief, but certainly not intentionally.

But even Mrs. Curtis had felt hurt at Matthew Dobson's conduct.

"You see, my dear," she explained to Mrs. Cross, wife of the agent for the firm of Dunbar and Co., "I looked upon Mr. Dobson's call as a positive insult to poor dear Mrs. Bradley. She hasn't come yet, and so I can explain what I mean. Annie, dear, won't you run up to amah, and ask her to find me that green silk I was looking for this morning?"

Annie -- a thin, flaxen-haired maiden of some 13 years, who had been listening greedily to the animated conversation between some six of the ladies and Mrs. Curtis -- rose very slowly and unwillingly, and walked out of the room.

"What makes this visit so strange," Mrs. Curtis went on, dropping her voice to a tone of mystery, "is that Mr. Dobson is making great changes in his household. At least, so the Chinese say. My amah, -- you know her, Mrs. Cross, -- who has been with me ever since Annie was born, tells me there has been painting and varnishing going on for the last month. Last steamer brought a very handsome suite of furniture up from Hong Kong. A brass bedstead, with a most elaborate wire-mattress, and such a handsome looking-glass. It almost looks as if he were going to be married! And my amah tells me he has even made the usual changes in his household arrangements -- you know, my dear! And then this call on Mrs. Bradley! What can that mean? If he wanted us all to do the civil by his wife, why on earth didn't he begin at the right place, and in the right order?"

"Mr. Dobson married! Quite ridiculous, wouldn't it be?" said Mrs. Cross, with an appealing giggle to the other ladies. "Why shouldn't he be getting himself a new bedroom suite? Don't you think that possible, Mrs. Curtis?"

"That doesn't account for what amah told me, does it?"

No, it didn't. The ladies worked on in convinced silence for three minutes.

"Amah also says, there is a lady expected there. She heard it from the cook's wife, who is her husband's sister. That was the reason given to the servants for all those changes. I didn't myself think he was a marrying man, and he hasn't been home for nearly a year! There's only one alternative to his being married, and that is that some niece or other of his has been left an orphan, and he is going to adopt her. But if so, why did he go and call on Mrs. Bradley? She's not the kind of woman to -- "

Annie's reappearance in the room, with the skein of missing green silk, choked the flood of Mrs. Curtis's eloquence. It was immediately followed by a ring at the front-door bell. And shortly after, just in time to account for a hasty toilette after slumber, the sleepy-eyed "boy" brought in two cards on a salver. They were a gentleman's cards, and bore the name

Mr. Matthew Dobson

Mrs. Curtis read the name out in a slow and solemn tone, a though she were repeating a response in the Commination Service.

"Wanchee see me, wanchee see master, boy?"

"Wanchee see you."

"Shall I see him?" Mrs. Curtis asked, appealing to the six. They of course voted "yes," being indeed devoured with curiosity both as to what had brought Mr. Dobson there, and as to how Mrs. Curtis meant to receive him.

"Can see, boy! Annie, you must go up to amah, and stay till I call you."

The scowl on Annie's face as she left the room was edifying to behold. And poor Mrs. Curtis's little scheme for keeping her daughter away from this dangerous member of society was in vain after all. Mr. Dobson met Annie just outside the drawing-room door, and naturally enough exchanged a greeting with her. Not a very brief one either, for Matthew was a lover of children, and was moreover feeling slightly, just a trifle, nervous at his coming interview with the first lady in Foochow.

But the boy flung open the door only to soon, and Matthew Dobson found himself, for the first time for many years, alone in the midst of seven ladies, elaborately attired, with the stiffest of society-expressions on their countenances.

Not a single one looked friendly. None, indeed, looked up at all, save only Mrs. Curtis, who was of course bound to be civil in her own house. She half rose to meet him with the stiffest of little bows. For the Consul's wife knew that not only were the ears, if not the eyes, of all Foochow upon her at that moment, but that whatever tone she adopted now would be faithfully followed by all the six ladies present. And, after all, this was a case of noblesse oblige, and much as she might feel inclined to be soft and sweet to the returning sinner, still she owed a higher duty to the whole community, and Mrs. Curtis was too public-spirited to shirk such an obvious duty.

If Mr. Dobson had come to her yesterday, or when by herself, well and good. Perhaps -- . But to come on a Working Party day! Mrs. Curtis fanned herself vigorously as she opened out on the unsuspecting visitor.

"I think this is the first time you have been in this house in my day, Mr. Dobson?"

She had never spoken to him before, and he had looked so hot and, she fancied, uncomfortable in a stiff and unaccustomed collar and black alpaca coat, that this little challenge was, if not justifiable, at least not imprudent.

"No. You see, I am not a ladies' man."

There was decided sarcasm, and a freedom from ail embarrassment, in Matthew Dobson's answer.

And Mrs. Curtis, looking more closely at him, perceived a distinct frown on his face. Seeing this frown, she at once jumped to the conclusion that he was a man to be frightened of, since he could not be bullied, and accordingly changed her manner of address.

"Did you want to see the Consul on any business, Mr. Dobson?"

"No, thank you," he answered. "I came to see you, Mrs. Curtis, and to apologise for not having called on you a good.; many years ago."

This was evidently intended as a joke, but Mrs. Curtis received it in dead silence. The subject, or at any rate the present aspect of it, was no joking matter to her.

"I called on Mrs. Bradley yesterday," went on the visitor, "because she is the latest arrival. Your husband tells me, Mrs. Curtis, I did wrong. I ought to have called on you first. I apologise."

"Quite unnecessary, Mr. Dobson," said Mrs. Curtis, relaxing into her usual affable smile. "All the same, I ought to tell you that the majority of Consuls' wives wouldn't be quite so ready to accept your excuses. So -- "

And here she looked up, and caught an expression lurking in the corner of Matthew Dobson's eye which made her rather repent that she hadn't looked up before she began to speak. The good-humour was gone, and Matthew Dobson's habitual look, as she knew it at race-meetings and such public gatherings as she had seen him at, was once more there, -- a look, she had always thought, of defiant contempt for her sex, with a quickness to take offence at any word that might come within gunshot of wounding his self-love; the look of a porcupine, with all his fretful quills erect.

"Yes?"

Matthew Dobson's interrogation was a challenge for war. Mrs. Curtis, a coward at heart, was about to knuckle down at once, had in fact begun a,stammering explanation of what she had meant to say, when Providence gave her a, deliverer in the shape of Mrs. Bradley.

And she had the mortification, not only of being released from an uncomfortable situation by a woman whom she considered both ill-bred and mischievous -- for of course Mrs. Curtis had taken as gospel-truth all the rumours that had preceded the Commissioner's wife to Foochow -- but of noting that Matthew Dobson's face softened a,t once, that his voice was gentle and courteous, and that he was evidently at his ease with Mrs. Bradley.

At ease with such a woman! What volumes did that not say for Matthew Dobson! This, then,, was the kind, of: woman he admired, he got on with! Mrs, Curtis's little nose almost curled in the air with contempt as she leaned back, in her chair, and watched the latest arrival.

A tall, stout,. red-faced lady, with a good,sprinkling of powder to soften the natural colour of her completion, wearing a dress, of the brightest cornflower-blue, set off by a huge, red feather fan, and sitting in the most ungraceful of. attitudes; in an attitude that Mrs. Curtis would have been scandalised to see Annie assume.

And goodness alone knew what topic of conversation she, was going to choose! It was with a genuine sigh of relief, for her own society's reputation, as well as for a possible truce to Mrs. Bradley's loud and cheerful voice, that Mrs. Curtis hailed the departure of Matthew Dobson.

"Did he invite you, Mrs. Curtis?" was Mrs. Bradley's question, almost before the door had closed on the visitor.

"Who invite me to what?"

Alas for Mrs. Curtis's little failing -- curiosity! She gave herself away entirely into the enemy's hand by this speech.

He is Mr. Dobson, and the what is his house," cried Mrs. Bradley, laughing again. "He hadn't been ten minutes in my drawing-room yesterday before he gave me the free run of his place. A most charming man I call him. I was quite flattered -- I told him so -- that he had come to call on me. He's not a ladies' man, the Commissioner tells me. And yet I find him the very next afternoon calling on you! Does he call regularly, Mrs. Curtis?"

No, Mrs. Curtis was glad to say he didn't. He was not the kind of man the mother of a growing-up girl cared to have calling regularly.

"Ah! there I'm more fortunate than you!" laughed Mrs. Bradley again. "I have no growing-up girls, and only my own morals to look after. And I'm pretty safe, I think!"

"Possibly," Mrs. Curtis returned, in what she meant to be a sarcastic tone, but which only succeeded in sounding ludicrous from her month. "But I, you see, have my position in society to think of as well. And as long as Mr. Dobson lives in defiance, open defiance, of all proprieties, so long shall I not care to cultivate his friendship."

"If you judge all your acquaintance by such a strict rule, what a weeding-out you will have!"

The six laughed. They really could not help it. Or rather, five did. The sixth, a missionary, nodded approvingly at Mrs. Curtis.

"We will change the subject, and come to tea," the Consul's wife said stiffly. "When you have been here a little longer, Mrs. Bradley, you will perhaps understand Foochow ways a little better, and not -- "

"If I live here a thousand years, which God forbid!" cried Mrs. Bradley, bringing down her fan with a thump on the table, "I shall never cut an agreeable and amusing acquaintance just because he doesn't look upon marriage with my own particular eyes. I hope I'm far too advanced to be so narrow-minded, bigoted -- "

"Yes, yes." The Consul had come in, and caught the last few words. "What are you saying about bigotry, Mrs. Bradley? Accusing me, or the chaplain, of it, eh?"

"Men are not bigoted," Mrs. Bradley answered testily. "It was only your wife and I who were discussing -- "

"Some one I vote we drop for the present," smiled Mrs. Curtis, suddenly herself again. "Milk and sugar, Mrs. Bradley?"

And by a few words dropped in to her husband's ear as he came to fetch Mrs. Bradley's cup, Mrs. Curtis contrived that Matthew Dobson's name should be banished for the remainder of the afternoon.

But when the other ladies had gone, she accompanied the Commissioner's wife to the gate, by a roundabout way. And what she said to her then made Mrs. Bradley look, though not shocked nor horrified, at least eager and interested.

Indeed, Mrs. Bradley greeted Matthew Dobson, whom she met on his way to the Club, more warmly than ever, and insisted on his seeing her home and guarding her against imaginary Chinese dogs. And Mrs. Curtis always declared it was not his reception at the Consulate, but Mrs. Bradley's influence alone, that brought it about that Matthew Dobson paid no more afternoon visits to ladies.

CHAPTER II.

"And I was perfectly right, you see!" exclaimed Mrs. Curtis in triumph about a week after the memorable Working Party when Matthew Dobson had paid his call. "He had a motive for calling on me, the old fox! Perfectly shameful, I, declare it was, to try to get round me with his calls! Most impertinent, I do declare!"

She had burst into her husband's dressing-room, where that worthy official, arrayed in an ancient kimono, was peacefully smoking his morning cigar after his bath, and reading the newspapers the steamer had just brought him.

Mr. Curtis was a nervous man, and his wife's irruption flustered him exceedingly. And so his voice was snappy as he asked,

"What do you mean by your wonderful alarms, Sarah? I wish you would speak,in an ordinary tone of voice, not go in for these violent outbursts. You should have a little consideration for my tastes., Now, you know -- "

"Oh yes!" Mrs. Curtis put in. "But wait till you've heard my news. You will be just as astonished and outraged as I am. Only just fancy -- " Here she closed the door, which had hitherto been banging cheerfully in the morning breeze -- "Fancy! Mr. Dobson has got out from England -- I've no doubt by the French mail, first-class -- a girl, a Eurasian girl, his daughter, and she and a grand lady companion arrived this morning!"

Mr. Curtis sat bolt upright.

"No! you don't mean it! Dobson has a daughter, has he? Well, he's kept it precious dark all along. Then is that the mother he has just sent away?"

"Yes, this girl's mother. But the impudence of the whole transaction is what angers me most. To bring such a girl here, to pass her off as his daughter, and force her into our society! For of course that was what he meant by coming to call here last week. It was the thin end of the wedge. But he'll never get the thick end in with me, at any rate!" cried Mrs. Curtis triumphantly. "I leave that sort of thing to Mrs. Bradley!"

"His daughter!" repeated the Consul in a tone of bewilderment. "Are you sure it's his daughter, Sarah? Who told you?"

"Who could tell me?" asked Mrs. Curtis, -- and a glance at her distinct undress supplied the answer at once.

"Amah told me. The Chinese know everything at once. Mr. Dobson went down to the steamer and brought her up. She's a girl of about seventeen, with at least six huge Saratoga trunks. I suppose she means to dress herself up in beads and feathers! Then there's a companion, an old lady with grey hair and spectacles, who seemed very frightened of the steamer coolies, and screamed when the chairs set off home. A pretty cavalcade, I've no doubt!" And Mrs. Curtis, having expended all her news, and having suddenly recollected there were possibly other details to be obtained from the amah, nodded to her husband, and went back to her own toilet.

This was indeed a piece of news, and very awkward news too, to Mr. Curtis. It quite spoiled any enjoyment of his cigar, and made him give himself extra cuts while shaving. His nerves were a trifle shaky, and so was his hand, at the best of times, doubtless owing simply to a long sojourn in China. He foresaw, with the clear-sighted vision of a man who has been often through them, stormy times ahead. This was not the first port he had been in with a regular fire-eater of the Matthew Dobson type. Nor do officials always come off best in struggles with merchant-princes. And how he had congratulated himself, and been congratulated too, by less fortunate predecessors, on the friendly terms on which he had managed to keep with Matthew Dobson! A great deal was owing, he freely admitted, to his wife's tact and good taste in not resenting Matthew Dobsons' failings as regarded herself. Mrs. Curtis had even arrived at bowing to him at the annual race-meeting -- the race-meeting that was due in another fortnight! And now, what would -- what could be the result of this unfortunate arrival?

Dobson's daughter was clearly impossible. As well as being on friendly terms with her father, Mr. Curtis was bound, even more bound, to be on friendly terms with the missionaries. Mrs. Curtis was hand in glove with them, beginning with the Bishop, to whom of course Matthew Dobson was worse than a heathen man and a publican. If the Consul took up the cause of the Dobsons, the missionaries would cut him. Whereas if he cut this Dobson girl, he must bid farewell to his before-dinner cocktail at the Club. Matthew Dobson would contrive to make that place too hot for him.

But here, having arrived at the lowest possible depth of despair, the Consul's spirits unaccountably began to rise again. Things needn't be so bad, after all. Very likely, in fact certainly, Matthew Dobson wouldn't try to force his daughter on any one. Why imagine evils before they came? Mr. Curtis was in quite a philosophical, i.e., easy, frame of mind by the time the boy announced breakfast.

Nor could his wife's very Anglicised French sentences shake his peace of mind. Of course she spoke in French about the Dobson household before Annie, who in reality knew much more about the new arrivals than her mother, having gleaned full particulars from the post-office coolie.

"There's nothing to be done, Sarah," he wound up his meal his saying, "The girl won't come in our way in the least. You won't know any more of her than if she had remained in England."

"I am not so sure of that, Mrs. Curtis answered, relapsing into her native tongue," He will get some lady to take her up, and invite her to her house: some one he has got power over. Didn't you tell me the Crosses owed him Tls. 20,000?"

"If I did tell you, you had no business to repeat it!" said the Consul in a tone of deep irritation. Annie, go away! Couldn't you see that child's mouth wide open, drinking in every word you said, Sarah? When will yon learn to keep your mouth shut about my office secrets?"

And Mr. Curtis tramped out of the room and house in a decidedly ruffled humour. He had no confidence in his wife's discretion.

That virtuous and highly respectable lady, after giving a scolding to Annie about nothing in particular, by way of working off steam, was just about to make her daily raid into the cookhouse and yard, when a loud and cheery voice was heard calling her name in the front hall.

There stood Mrs. Bradley, arrayed in a gorgeous pink and yellow tea-gown, which evidently covered a most rudimentary summer morning toilette.

"I was obliged to come round to you, just as I was, dear Mrs. Curtis!" she cried, advancing into the dining-room. "I didn't know if you had heard this extraordinary bit of news: Mr. Dobson has got a daughter come this morning!"

Mrs. Bradley had lowered her voice to a hollow whisper as she brought out these words. She had evidently come expecting to impart real news, in the true sense of the word. Indeed, what was the good of being a Commissioner's wife if she did not hear everything there was to be heard in the place before any one else? But Mrs. Curtis's face was unresponsive.

"Yes, so I have heard," she answered in a tone of indifference. "But really I didn't think it could concern me in the least, and so I attached no importance to the news."

"How did you hear?" enquired Mrs. Bradley. I didn't think any one but the Commissioner and myself knew it. The-whole affair has been kept such a profound mystery. Why, I was at Mr. Dobson's last night, and he never thought of mentioning it even to me!"

Mrs. Bradley's evident vexation at her news being stale was quite gratifying to behold.

"Oh, of course, we always get first intelligence of everything," remarked Mrs. Curtis in a casual tone. "I would rather ask, Mrs. Bradley, how you got it?"

"Oh, that's simple enough!" cried Mrs. Bradley cheerfully. "The steamer passenger-list always comes to the Custom House, and I make them bring it to me first. Well, when I saw 'Miss Dobson,' and 'Miss Pointz,' I naturally thought of our friend Matthew. So I sent off my No. 2 boy -- that little fellow, you know -- to find out at Mr. Dobson's. And he's just come back."

"Of course you can find out anything if you go to work!" said Mrs. Curtis, ironically. "But Mr. Curtis is very particular about my not questioning servants. There are some people who use their servants in such very strange ways, to find things out for them! But Mr. Curtis is almost foolish about what he calls 'pumping' people. And, as a consequence, perhaps -- at least he says so -- he knows everything before -- "

"Ah yes! yes!" broke in Mrs. Bradley, who had paid not the-slightest attention to what Mrs. Curtis had been saying, and so felt perfectly unruffled. "Why on earth did you make this into a dining-room, Mrs. Curtis? With a fresh colour on the walls -- what would you say to a dado too? -- It would make a lovely boudoir. Excuse me; I must say at the moment what I've got on my mind, and your room struck me just then as so wasted. But I must be going!"

Mrs. Bradley gathered together the folds of her tea-gown, hastily securing a few of its hooks, and stood up to go.

"By the by, Mrs. Curtis," she said, pausing at the door," I did want to know something. How do you propose to receive Miss Dobson? Shall you go and call on her, or wait till her father brings her to see you?"

"Her father brings her to see me! That he certainly won't do!" cried Mrs. Curtis. "And if he does, I shall not be at home, of course! My dear Mrs. Bradley, what can you be thinking of?"

"Thinking of!" retorted Mrs. Bradley. "I am thinking of what is the most likely thing to happen. It would be very hard indeed on this girl, in my opinion, if she is a decent sort of girl, that she should be cut, and ignored, and treated as dirt by every one, -- because of what? Simply because her mother is a Chinawoman, and not married to her father!"

"Mrs. Bradley!" -- Mrs. Curtis's voice was low, but firm -- "You are, I know, what people call advanced. I am old-fashioned, and pride myself on being womanly. As a woman, as the mother of a family, and as a Consul's wife, I cannot, I dare not, recognise viciousness. Mr. Dobson is, and has been a vicious man. This girl is the living proof of it. And she's got to suffer for her father's sin. The Bible gives us the authority for saying so!"

Mrs. Curtis paused, triumphantly. It had been a grand speech, one which would distinctly bear repetition, and addition too. Mrs. Bradley, freethinker, church-neglecter though she was, would assuredly be annihilated. But no!

"I thank my Maker!" cried Mrs. Bradley, a subtle provincial touch modulating her accents, "that I don't belong to your school of thought! The ways of the Foochow people, their upper and their lower circles of society, their visitable and unvisitable people, are detestable! To set oneself against a wretched girl before even knowing what she is like! It's monstrous! If this is Foochow Christianity, may I not go to heaven along with you all!"

"That's quite your affair," said Mrs. Curtis, stiffly. Mrs. Bradley was getting hot and angry, which put her at once at a disadvantage.

"Well, if you don't mean to do the right thing, I will. I'll go and call to-day, and I've a good mind to invite her straight away, just to shame the Foochow people!" cried Mrs. Bradley, opening the door with a sound resembling a snort.

"Invite her as much as you please, Mrs. Bradley. Only, don't invite me or my daughter to meet her."

To this, delivered with a friendly nod of the head, Mrs. Bradley, half-way down the hall, vouchsafed no answer. And Mrs. Curtis called Annie to her lessons with the self-satisfied air of one who has scored completely over an adversary.

CHAPTER III.

Mrs. Bradley was succeeding beyond her wildest dreams. She was turning Foochow completely upside down. The lowly were being exalted, and the high were being brought low.

None of your snobbish distinctions between the Indoor and the Outdoor staff for Mrs. Bradley. Her society was composed of individuals, chosen for their own personalities. This was one of the main articles of her social creed. Indeed, it came next after the very first, which was that Mrs. Bradley's personal likes and dislikes were the criterion by which she judged of every one else. It is scarcely necessary here to note that these same likes and dislikes were not framed after the fashion of the laws of the Medes and Persians.

Surely Foochow had never held a woman more absolutely, more triumphantly right, in her opposition to obstinate, pig-headed, antiquated notions, than was Mrs. Bradley as she swooped down on Respectability and Good Tone in the form of Mrs. Curtis's Working Party on the afternoon of the day Matthew's daughter arrived. Her experiences of her visit at Mr. Dobson's house, which were readily imparted to Mrs. Curtis's guests, to the utter disgust of their hostess, were somewhat as follows: -- 

About 4 p.m. she had started off to call on Miss Dobson. Well, that mightn't be her real name -- with a look towards Mrs. Curtis -- but it was near enough. And she had found her at home, of course. Matthew Dobson, a trifle nervous, she had noticed at once, had greeted her with great warmth at the door. She had been taken into a room which had evidently just been fitted up for his daughter. It was a very pretty sitting-room, with some simply priceless pieces of cloisonne and "old blue" standing about. [Here Mrs. Bradley entered into a minute description of the elegancies of the furniture, etc.] Then Miss Dobson had come in, and had been introduced as "Sacha."

"Sacha?" queried the missionary's wife, interested against her better judgment. "Is that a Chinese name? I never heard of it in Europe."

"Oh yes, I've heard it before," answered Mrs. Bradley, who made a point of never admitting that anything was new to her. "It is out of some old legend, I think, only I forget which one at this moment. At any rate, Sacha Dobson is quite as pretty as though she had just stepped out of a picture-frame!"

"I never yet saw a pretty Eurasian," said Mrs. Curtis, contemptuously. "I never could see any beauty in a flat nose, slanting eyes, and hair like a rope. I admire fine, silky hair myself!"

"Well, you would scarcely believe it," Mrs. Bradley went on, addressing herself (much to that lady's confusion) exclusively to the missionary's wife, "but this girl is a perfect Spanish beauty. Just the tiniest, archest tilt to the eyes, just the colour of the hair and eyes -- perhaps just a trifle of width to the nose -- that is all she has Chinese about her. A girl I shouldn't be ashamed to be seen with anywhere, even in Hong Kong or Shanghai!"

And hereupon Mrs. Bradley launched forth upon the simplicity, the perfection of Sacha's manner. She had evidently moved in the very best of society at home. She had spoken of her "Aunt Mary," by whom she meant, according to Matthew Dobson, his own sister. And, finally, the companion, or governess, Miss Pointz, had been presented for Mrs. Bradley's inspection and approval.

"And I didn't approve of her at all!" remarked the candid Mrs. Bradley. "Of course I couldn't say so; but I should think she would be a fearful bore to them both. Such a prudish, j)rim, little old maid, with spectacles, black alpaca dress, and genteel air! A perfect horror, my dear Mrs. Curtis, a perfect horror! Why, she'll be so proper she won't allow that poor Sacha a scrap of liberty! A regular duenna she is! I think I shall advise Mr. Dobson to get rid of her as soon as he can."

"If I were you, I shouldn't interfere in that household!" remarked Mrs. Curtis, incautiously. Bitterly she repented her indiscretion a few minutes later, when Mrs. Bradley turned on her and metaphorically rent her, accusing her in no measured terms of want of charity, of narrow-mindedness, and all the sundry great and small Foochow social vices the Commissioner's wife so particularly held in abhorrence.

Now Mrs. Bradley had already two days before gone half way to offending the principal merchant's wife by inviting her to meet an Assistant Examiner at dinner, and by asking her to accompany this same out-of-society man in a song, to the mutual confusion of both parties concerned. This "insult" had been the topic of conversation previous to Mrs. Bradley's arrival, and the wronged tea-merchant's wife now came gallantly to Mrs. Curtis's rescue.

"There is no denying," she said in a dignified, quiet voice, which somehow drowned the loud rushing sound of Mrs. Bradley's discourse, "that we all agree with Mrs. Curtis. We know, we feel we are right, though we can't prove it to you. By all means, if you find Mr. Dobson's daughter useful to you -- there was a slight tinge of bitterness here -- cultivate her. We don't require any such help to make our parties go off well!"

"Perhaps that's the reason they don't go off well!" laughed Mrs. Bradley with unshaken good humour. "I've always heard, even so far away as Canton, what a dead-alive place Foochow was! And yet there are plenty of people here. I never hit on the reason before!"

Pale with rage, the merchant's wife now remained speechless. For, after all, Mrs. Bradley was the Commissioner's wife, and to have the Commissioner your enemy does not suit a steamer-agent, nor the head of a hong -- any one, in fact, but a Consul. Only, was it possible for people, however much it might be their interest to do so, to keep friends with Mrs. Bradley?

But the ladies were not to be put to the test any more that afternoon. Mrs. Bradley suddenly remembered she had engaged to meet one of the Customs' assistants on the Race-Course at 5.30, and it was nearly six o'clock then. So, after affectionately embracing "dear" Mrs. Curtis, much to that lady's disgust, and disturbing all the servants to find her chair-coolies -- whom after all she had sent home -- the Commissioner's wife departed.

And the ruffled ladies smoothed each other by tearing her dress, character, and actions ruthlessly to pieces.

CHAPTER IV.

Mrs. Bradley was perfectly right. Matthew Dobson was living a life of agonising nervousness.

He had never thought much, if anything, about Sacha while she was small. In those days he had been clerk in a very large firm, in charge of a branch in Formosa. The firm had failed, but out of its ruins many new firms had arisen. One was Matthew Dobson's, and it had taken up its head-quarters in Foochow.

But when he left Formosa, Matthew had sent the little Sacha, aged four, home to his maiden sister in England. She, not knowing who the child's mother was, and having the most hazy ideas of everything and every place to the east of Paris, had from the first looked upon her niece as a lineal descendant, on the mother's side, from some great Oriental potentate, such as the Lama of Tibet, Prince Tao-t'ai, or some of those wonderful Chinese personages that figure in the pages of Tit-Bits, or even higher-class periodicals. And in this belief, which was strengthened by Matthew Dobson's persistent silence in answer to all her queries, Miss Dobson senior had always remained. Further, she had lost no opportunity of impressing this creed on every one around Sacha, beginning with the child herself. When she was very young, it was Sacha's nurse who was instructed to treat with proper reverence the little Princess. As she grew older, it was her schoolmistress and her schoolfellows who had followed in the same train. And thus it came about that Sacha Dobson reached the age of sixteen in the firm belief that she was a greater personage than any of her acquaintances, that her word was law, her wishes commands, and that a brilliant future awaited her in that mysterious East from which she had come.

And then, when she was sixteen years old, her father came home. Of course not with the Princess her mother, popularly believed to have died at Sacha's birth. Quite by himself, quite unexpectedly he came, rather to his sister's disappointment, who had looked for a Jos Sedley, with a magnificent retinue laden with umbrellas, gongs and presents into the bargain. But after all, perhaps it was more distinguished, though not so overwhelming to one's neighbours in a remote country-town, to come as he came. On his side, Matthew Dobson found his little brown imp of a child, all eyes, mud, and life, transformed into a handsome, fat, sleepy-eyed girl of sixteen, who looked at least five years older, and betrayed no surprise nor pleasure at his arrival. How on earth was she to, after having been separated from him for twelve years? Sacha simply accepted his presents and attentions as though they came from an inferior, certainly not from a father.

Matthew Dobson was annoyed, with an annoyance that almost got the better of his admiration for his daughter's looks. He had come home fully resolved to take her out with him again; and he did not do so. He made up his mind her education was not completed, -- Sacha's ignorance, by the way, was equalled only by her laziness, -- and so he left her behind to follow him in two years' time.

But Miss Mary Dobson died about three months after her brother started for China, and so nnder the guardianship of Miss Pointz, an intimate friend of the vicar, Sacha came out to her father just after her seventeenth birthday.

And Matthew Dobson, after much mature deliberation, decided that it would never, never do for Sacha to meet or to know her mother, who had formed part of the Dobson household for the last twenty years. Far better let her continue in the belief she had always held, that her mother was dead. Of course, this matter was easily arranged. Then, his household once set in order, Matthew Dobson began to be tormented as to his social duties as regarded his daughter. Clearly, he had been wrong in studiously avoiding ladies' society. It would not do to launch Sacha amidst a throng of clerks, tea-tasters, Customs' assistants, even elderly bachelors of his own standing. He had been morally obliged to-furnish her with a duenna. But a girl, a young thing like that, would want amusement; ladies always seemed to want lady-friends. And it was with this motive alone, which he meant to disclose did the ladies receive him kindly, that Matthew Dobson paid those two memorable visits.

Certainly it was unfortunate -- he mused to himself a few days after Sacha's arrival, while his daughter was lying on a long chair in her verandah upstairs, lazily reading herself to sleep, and Miss Pointz was filling, in a fine Italian hand, sheets of the thinnest foreign paper with utterly illegible descriptions of her experiences -- it was unfortunate that his hong happened to be in Foochow. The women of the place were an insufferable set of snobs. All of them, of course, except Mrs. Bradley. And she was not much, more desirable as an acquaintance than the rest.

Mrs. Curtis and her friends had, one and all, refused even to acknowledge the existence of his Sacha. This fact had been absolutely thrust upon Matthew, who had felt it his duty, as well as his pride, to parade his daughter without much delay on the Race-course, where every evening the fashionables of Foochow were wont to congregate, and which was now carefully railed round in preparation for the coming races. Luckily Miss Pointz was not with them on that occasion, that worthy lady being prostrated by a severe bilious attack following on the well-known "China appetite." And Matthew persuaded himself easily that Sacha did not know enough of life to be astonished at the blank stare with which one lady greeted their appearance, or the hurried way in which Mrs. Curtis turned aside her head and began explaining something very audibly to her little girl when he passed the Consular group. No, Sacha was quite content to walk along by her father's side, hanging on his arm; more than satisfied with the admiring glances of some half-a-dozen young clerks, who only awaited Mrs. Curtis's departure to beg for an introduction to her. But Mrs. Curtis held the field, and there were only the least desirable people who braved public opinion, and came up to join the Dobsons.

Matthew Dobson, inwardly boiling with impotent rage, was almost thinking of going home again, when Mrs. Bradley, arrayed in the full glory of her cornflower-blue dress, appeared upon the scene. That changed the face of affairs. The Curtis party wavered, and broke up. The wives of the Customs' Assistants discovered, after a few words with the advancing Commissioner's wife, that it was the children's bedtime. The younger Assistants joined their chief's wife in her progress. And Mrs. Curtis and Annie, to save themselves from being swept off their feet and made to join in the tide that was rolling over towards the Dobsons, left the Race-course to the enemy.

But after all, when he turned over in his mind the various sensations through which he had passed that evening, Matthew Dobson was not quite satisfied with the turn things had taken after Mrs. Bradley's appearance. Of course, it is doubtful whether the tact of au angel from heaven would have satisfied him. Mrs. Bradley had greeted him and his daughter with an effusion which seemed to him to savour of patronage. Patronage shewn to Matthew Dobson, forsooth! The young men had treated Sacha too familiarly; the elder ones had offended even more in this respect.

And Sacha? Well, lie could find no fault with her. She was superior, his little girl, in every way to any European woman he had ever seen or known.

No, he was glad she wasn't more grown-up, and was after all such a child. Her imperiousness, her selfish little ways, delighted him. A woman ought to be greedy, and lazy. Not to excess, of course. But Heaven defend him from a strong-minded daughter! There was no use in being too sharp, and finding out slights and petty discourtesies. Matthew was glad Sacha had inherited none of his own sensitiveness, that sensitiveness which had after all been the real cause of his hatred and fear of women, and which was now poisoning some of the purest joy it had ever been his fate to possess.

Perhaps it was a good thing the women had made up their minds to leave her alone. They might only have succeeded in making her artificial, or in wounding her self-love. Neither of which would it ever enter into Mrs. Bradley's head for one moment to do. She, the Commissioner's wife was natural to a fault, and Sacha would only receive kindnesses, Matthew was sure, from her hands. And as for Mrs. Bradley's laxity in social morality, why, he, Sacha's father, would take good care to guard her against that.

And so he made no scruple, scarcely asked it as a favour of Mrs. Bradley, that she should chaperone Sacha and Miss Pointz to the Races on the Tuesday following.

CHAPTER V.

"Best bibs and tuckers, eh, Sacha?" laughed Matthew with an admiring laugh on Tuesday morning. "Got up to kill, little one? Take care of her. Miss Pointz, and don't let her flirt too much!"

Miss Pointz looked up in great alarm.

"I hope Sacha will never forget herself, and what is -due to her, so as to flirt," said the duenna, nervously scratching up from her lap a few stray crumbs, and flinging them on to the table. "It is such a vulgar thing to flirt!"

To call a thing "vulgar" was with Miss Pointz synonymous with worthy of penal servitude for life. But of course Matthew Dobson did not know this.

"Vulgar is it?" he went on. "I don't mind a little vulgarity myself. What say you, Sacha?"

"I don't know," Sacha answered absently. She was fully occupied in trying to eat a mango so as to combine Miss Pointz's elegant turn of the wrist with real enjoyment of the fruit itself.

"If, Mr. Dobson," Miss Pointz said in a dignified manner, "you like vulgarity, I fear I must 'umbly beg to differ entirely from you."

Miss Pointz; was "very particular about the pronunciation of the word 'umble, and took every opportunity of introducing it into conversation.

"Indeed! why that's a pity!" cried Matthew Dobson cheerfully. He could not resist the old schoolboy sensation of poking fun at this prim old maid.

Luckily for Miss Pointz's peace of mind, the master of the house was here called away, and she did not see him again till he came to conduct Sacha and herself to the Grand Stand on the Race-course.

This same morning Mrs. Curtis had had a somewhat severe shock to her nerves. She had been sitting in her bedroom, hearing Annie repeat a speech she was to make that day, when, totally unannounced, her eldest son, Harry, had walked into her room.

Harry Curtis was three-and-twenty, and a 4th Assistant (B) in the Customs. It had hitherto been his mother's constant complaint that her son had been stationed in the most out-of-the-way, unhealthy ports, and she had often hinted that some, personal grudge was at the bottom of this persistent neglect. Of course, she had always wanted Harry to be stationed in Foechow; That is, always before Mrs. Bradley's arrival. And now, with the usual irony of fate, Mrs. Curtis found her wishes fulfilled, and her son suddenly, at a moment's notice, transferred to Foochow!

The lad himself, however, was so delighted to be there, and in such spirits at having arrived just in time for the Races, that Mrs. Curtis began to forget, or at any rate to look calmly on, coming possibilities of trouble. Of course Harry could not quarrel with his Commissioner's wife; nor could she, his mother, either, for Harry's sake. It was indeed a lucky thing that she was still on good terms with Mrs. Bradley. It would be easy to keep on a civil footing with her, though they could never be real friends. Easy, -- that is if Mrs. Bradley did not force her into enmity by leading Harry into some mischief or other! Mrs. Curtis's confidence in her son's discretion was unfortunately not great, and Foochow was after all a dangerous place to live in.

And here was a dangerous person, the Consul's wife mused, as from her seat in the Grand Stand she saw the Dobson chair-coolies' livery appear on the scene.

The wooden shed, furnished with somewhat dilapidated cane chairs, that was dignified by this name, was nearly full of brilliantly dressed ladies. This was Miss Pointz's first appearance in public, and her very smartest gown -- which, by the way, she had not put on, judging it suitable only for Church -- would have paled an its glories beside the very plainest dressed woman she now saw. Soft pinks, elegant silks, rich satins, passed in a bewildering maze before her eyes. Sacha's dress, which she had thought far too smart, was only a simple girl's toilette after all. And, towering above the other ladies, in height as in situation, sat the most gorgeously arrayed of all, Mrs. Bradley, who welcomed them as soon as they came in sight; certainly before they came within hearing.

"Mr. Curtis, go and fetch them up to me!"

Harry Curtis, as in duty bound, was of course in attendance on the Commissioner's wife.

As Mrs. Bradley gave this command, she glanced with assumed indifference towards Mrs. Curtis, who had surrounded herself with an imposing group of magnificently attired females.

The Consul's wife pretended to be deaf, and blind too, to the , approaching trio. But she took a good look at Miss Pointz as that little lady, half tripping over her dress, made her way up to Mrs. Bradley.

Matthew Dobson did not follow them. He could not perhaps trust himself to stand by and watch their reception. Or perhaps he was altogether engrossed with the races, and his bets on the various ponies. At any rate he turned aside into the weighing -enclosure, and left the women to fight it out amongst themselves.

But the jockeys, and all his other friends, found him strangely absent-minded. He kept on walking out of the weighing and saddling shed, and looking with an anxiety he could not disguise in the direction of the Grand Stand. Mrs. Bradley's loud laugh, which was distinctly audible within the shed, seemed invariably to draw him out from its shelter. The silences, too, that alternated with that laugh, had the very same effect. Indeed, so absorbed was Matthew in things strictly outside racing proper, that he totally ignored Mr. Cross's awkward attempts to engage him in a friendly conversation. From which circumstance that worthy debtor jumped to the conclusion that Dobson was offended because his (Mr. Cross's wife had not called upon "that girl," and determined to remedy the mistake before his creditor called for payment.

But it was Sacha, of course, who was filling her father's mind with anxiety. What broad wit was Mrs. Bradley indulging in? What scrape could she be leading the girl into? Or again (this after one of those silences) what mischief had Mrs. Curtis managed to make?

No, Sacha was all right, sitting by Mrs. Bradley. Quite in the corner, it was true, but still safe. Where was Miss Pointz, though? Oh, only in the row below. But Mrs. Bradley had no business to beckon up that young tide-waiter, and set him talking to Sacha? She was not to associate with the Outdoor Staff! And then, what business had she, Mrs. Bradley, to bring up those little black-and-tan children of that assistant examiner I As Steward of the Race-course (of course not as Sacha's father) Matthew Dobson felt the incongruity of the affair. Such distinctly Chinese children! There! Sacha was actually talking to one! Before he knew it, Matthew Dobson had gone halfway across the enclosure to remonstrate on this infringement of an unwritten law. And then he suddenly recollected that, in Mrs. Curtis's eyes at any rate, Sacha's presence was quite as unlawful as that of those three little Eurasians.

"You're, not on it, to-day, Dobson!" said the Consul, slapping him on the back, "Come and have a drink!"

Now the Consul was strictly forbidden by his wife to "hare any drinks." They didn't suit him. But every day is not a Race day, and so Mr. Curtis had already had several drinks, which drinks, of course, had only made him more thirsty. Besides,he had seen Sacha Dobson for the first time, and had been especially struck by her good looks. And he wisely judged Matthew Dobson would not object to hearing his (Mr. Curtis's) opinion of his daughter.

In fact, he made himself so agreeable to Matthew that they had not only one, but two, drinks together, the chits being signed by Matthew, as the Consul had already exceeded the amount he cared to account for to his wife. And when they left the bar the Grand Stand was empty. The ladies had gone to lunch at the Commissioner's, who that day was keeping open house.

Never, so long as he lived, was Matthew Dobson to know how much those drinks had post him.

Miss Pointz, abandoned on a lower row of chairs, had, after vainly trying by impressive coughs and clears of the throat to direct Sacha's attention to herself, taken to studying the lowest row in the Grand Stand, occupied by Mrs. Curtis and her friends. Mrs. Curtis's eyes, in travelling up to the Bradley row, by necessity encountered those of the deserted Miss Pointz. As a public personage Mrs. Curtis was of course bound to bow to the stranger. Miss Pointz returned the salutation with eagerness. And in a few minutes Annie Curtis, charged with a message, came up to the forlorn spinster.

"Mamma says, there is an. empty chair near her, where you can see the Races much, better than from where you are now. Will you,come?"

And Miss Pointz obeyed with alacrity.

It has been already said that Mrs. Curtis was good-natured and friendly with all. Of course this means, only so long as nobody interfered with her to any serious extent. No one on the China coast would have dreamt of contradicting this statement by pointing out that she was not particularly friendly with Mrs. Bradley. To quarrel with Mrs. Bradley did not touch any one's character nearly as much as being friends with her did. Still, it is to be questioned whether Mrs. Curtis and Mrs. Bradley would not have remained on a "dear" footing, had it not been for the appearance of young Harry Curtis on the scene.

When Mrs. Curtis, with the quick and jealous eye of a mother, saw her boy dragged into the circle where Sacha Dobson shone, she was naturally alarmed. The lad was so childish, such a perfect schoolboy! And Mrs. Bradley so clever, so intriguing! Mrs. Curtis sniffed danger at once. Nor did Sacha's appearance and get-up re-assure her. The young lady was looking her Very best, and, wide-awake for a marvel, was making herself excessively charming. From his earliest days Harry had always adored and admired women. His mother, who had been hoping he had grown out of that frame of mind, realised with horror that he was as hopeless now as in the days when a lad of fifteen, he had thrown the whole household into consternation by announcing that in future years he intended to marry his little sister's nurse, a young woman specially selected for future exportation to China on account -of an ugliness which had even appalled her own mother.

The more Mrs. Curtis looked, and watched, the more convinced she became that a deep-laid plot to ruin her own happiness, through corrupting her son, was being hatched by Mrs. Bradley and the Dobsons. If Mrs. Cross, on whom her husband had been impressing the necessity of avoiding any open insult to Matthew Dobson, had not been so worried herself, she could hardly have failed to notice Mrs. Curtis's annoyance. Even the fact that Annie was to give away the Ladies' Purse, to which of course the Dobsons had been made to subscribe, could not console her. And this in spite of the fact that Matthew would undoubtedly resent the slight put upon his handsome daughter, "who as latest arrival ought, and most likely would, but for Mrs. Curtis's influence, have been the heroine of the hour. Yet after all, to give away the Ladies' Purse was a passing honour, to be forgotten in a month. Whereas a flirtation between this Dobson girl and the Consul's son, there was no telling where it might end. Harry couldn't flirt, he always took things so seriously!

Mrs. Curtis began to feel that any means would be justifiable in her hands to prevent such an awful end. But what means had she in her power? How could she, without seriously injuring Harry's prospects in the Customs' service set him at enmity with his Commissioner's wife? Mrs. Curtis had heard of the power of secret reports, and of the blasted careers of those unfortunates who had not cut their coats according to their Commissioners' cloth. And then her eye fell upon Miss Pointz, sitting with a face dying of offence, deserted by Sacha, ignored by Mrs. Bradley. And, without arguing out the matter, the Consul's wife instinctively felt that here was an ally to be cultivated.

For the rest of the day Miss Pointz never quitted Mrs. Curtis's side. No, not even for tiffin, when Mrs. Curtis insisted that, "as the stranger," she must occupy one of the chief seats, though by so doing she could not keep her eye on Harry and Sacha, who, by Mrs. Bradley's order, had been relegated to a small side-table by themselves. Sounds of laughter came almost without ceasing from that end of the room, adding fuel to Mrs. Curtis's already flaming fire of wrath. And a final parade of the two, arm-in-arm, down the length of the dining room, finally decided the anxious mother to make a friend and confidante of the beaming Miss Pointz.

But the task of enlightening Miss Pointz as to the shocking' immorals of the household of which she was part proved to be no easy one. The excellent companion was exceedingly obtuse, not to say stupid, in grasping innuendoes; and sentences which to any enlightened China hand would have been clear as daylight were evidently perfectly unintelligible to her. When venturing out of the realm of hints, Mrs. Curtis announced that there were but eight annas to the rupee in "that girl," she found Miss Pointz equally deficient in numismatics. So that, finally, she was reduced to placing the whole situation in reference to Mr. Dobson's domestic arrangements in the baldest Saxon before the astonished Miss Pointz.

They were quite by themselves when the revelation took place. The elder gentlemen, and with them Matthew Dobson, were all at tiffin. The young people were strolling about below the Grand Stand. Mrs. Curtis's friends were resting in Mrs. Bradley's shady drawing-room until the officials of the Race-course should con-" descend to ordain the resumption of the day's business.

"But her mother was a princess!" exclaimed Miss Pointz, clutching eagerly at a passing straw of hope. "Every one knows that!"

"What?" Mrs. Curtis's voice rose almost to a shriek. "You don't mean to say they've told you that?"

"No, not exactly," Miss Pointz interrupted hastily. "But it was well known; every one in England knew it. In fact I've always heard that the poor woman died at her daughter's birth."

"Whoever told you that told you a falsehood, then!" retorted Mrs. Curtis. "Why, Mrs. Cross here (that lady just then-appearing on the scene) can tell you as well as I that, far from being a Princess, -- a Princess, my dear, they told Miss Pointz Sacha's mother was! -- she was just what I have told you, and is alive now!"

Poor Mrs. Cross, thus appealed to, sorely repented she had ever left Mrs. Bradley's drawing-room. For, considering that she in all probability, would have to go and call on Sacha before long, it was most unpleasant, to say the least, that a member of the Dobson household should know she was aware of the secret of Sacha's birth. She absolutely frowned on Mrs. Curtis.

In vain. Mrs. Curtis had just caught sight of Sacha pinning A buttonhole on to Harry Curtis's coat under the direct superintendence of Mrs. Bradley. What mother would be proof against such a spectacle?

"I can't believe it! Excuse me, Mrs. Curtis, I don't mean to say I doubt your word. But it seems incredible to me that a gentleman like Mr. Dobson could so cruelly deceive a poor helpless orphan like myself!"

As Miss Pointz would scarcely see forty again, the "orphan" plea was perhaps somewhat far-fetched. Still, she was evidently helpless, and Mrs. Curtis looked at her with a pity that would have been quite genuine had she not been obliged to retain a good part of her limited supply of that quality for herself.

"My dear Miss Pointz," she said, "Mr. Dobson is, I am Sorry to say, an atheist as well as -- " the blank was filled up with significant nods. "Now I do not mean to throw any doubts on Mr. Dobson. Far from it, I believe him to be a strictly honourable man. But, I pat it to you yourself: Where can a man be without religion, who has no fear of God before his eyes?"

Miss Pointz was turning green with horror.

"An atheist too?"

The poor elderly spinster indeed felt she had been cajoled into a Gomorrha, and without a Zoar to escape to.

"But last Sunday, when I was too unwell to go to church he went there with Sacha himself!"

Miss Pointz in her despair was taking up the cudgels for her employer.

"Did he, indeed?" enquired Mrs. Curtis eagerly. Truth to tell, she had herself been absent that last Sunday, it being the only morning when the tailor was at liberty to try on her Race-dress.

"Then, if he went last Sunday, it was for the first time in his life!"

This Miss Pointz was of course not in a position to dispute. Indeed, she felt not the slightest disposition to defend Matthew Dobson, of whom she stood in mortal fear. A fear, moreover, daily renewed and increased by his voice swearing at his servants all over the house, or grumbling at his food at meals. For Sacha's father, never having been accustomed to control his feelings in years past, had not been altogether able to govern his temper during the whole fortnight Miss Pointz had lived under his roof. And, without drawing on her imagination, the portrait of Matthew Dobson presented by Mrs. Curtis was not calculated to cheer the spinster, who was under a three years' agreement to watch over Sacha.

The ladies were streaming into the Grand Stand now, and Mrs. Curtis got carried away and separated from Miss Pointz. The Consul's wife was not sorry for this interruption, since it was high time she looked after Harry, now that Miss Pointz thoroughly understood the footing on which the Dobsons were tolerated in Foochow. The good seed had been sown, and only wanted a little time to spring up in the companion's heart. But in another part of her vineyard there was a danger even more pressing and more urgently calling for attention. For Mrs. Bradley was one against whom she might not openly fight, and her "weapons were: a pretty girl and a foolish boy.

CHAPTER VI.

Tired though she was, Miss Pointz wrote a long letter to-England that evening.

It was addressed to the vicar of her parish, for whom she entertained a hopeless passion. And it detailed, in language as veiled as she could make it, Mrs. Curtis's information of that afternoon.

Of course Miss Pointz's first inclination had been to seek an. interview with her employer, and throw up her situation on the spot. If challenged for a reason, she would naturally give him her reason: that she could not remain under the same roof with such a father and such a daughter. But worldly wisdom, and the space of time which necessarily elapsed before she had an opportunity of speaking, brought a change of mind. In the first place, she had come out under a three years' agreement, which bound her to remain where she was during that time, or, in case of not fulfilling her engagement, repaying to Matthew Dobson her passage out, plus the sum of 50, one year's salary. This was, of course, quite beyond Miss Pointz's means to do. Further, it was exceedingly doubtful whether she could find another situation at once in China. Judging by Foochow, there were very few children in the Bast. And if she could not get another situation, where was her passage-money home to come from?

A victim to false representations, for uncorrected impressions may well rank as such, Miss Pointz undoubtedly was. Of course she might reasonably claim the benefit of Mrs. Curtis's advice, but instinct warned her not to seek that priceless treasure. It is-so easy to give another person advice, even if that advice involves loss of bread, butter and shelter to the enquirer, when one's own-food and clothing are assured. Fortune had not frowned on Miss Pointz for naught; it had taught her a few lessons. And the first one she resolved to put in practice was: not to leave a substance for a shadow.

There was, too, another clause in the agreement of which she might very possibly reap the advantage. It ran to this effect, that, should Matthew Dobson find he had no further need of Miss Pointz's services before the expiration of the three years, he, in case of dismissing her, should provide her with the passage-money home.

And so Miss Pointz made up her mind, even while she was asking the vicar's advice, to either force Matthew Dobson to-dismiss her, or to patiently await the termination of her agreement in a natural way.

But though she was, so to speak, obliged to remain under this sinner's roof and eat of his table. Miss Pointz felt she was no longer bound to treat either himself or his daughter with courtesy. Greatly to Sacha's astonishment, from the day of the Races forward the companion's manner entirely changed towards her. Easy-going, good-natured Sacha was bewildered at first at this extraordinary transformation of one of the meekest, smothest-tongued, most obsequious of duennas into an irritable, spiteful old maid. The misfortune was, that Miss Pointz could not systematically carry out what she firmly believed was only self-vindication. When she had said something meant to be crushing, and which only failed to be cruel because of Sacha's utter ignorance of the fatal knowledge Miss Pointz possessed, the little companion, who after all had a conscience, would feel it prick her and, stealing a side-look at Sacha, would suddenly become overwhelmed with remorse at having taken such advantage of the pretty and hopelessly incapable girl gazing at her in astonishment. Those were dangerous moments for Sacha's complacency of mind. Miss Pointz was then nearly in the act of confessing everything she knew. Bat there are sme matters on which society has forbidden spinsters, even of an uncertain age, to speak freely. And Miss Pointz was a slave to society.

As for her manner to Matthew Dobson, try as she might, she could not alter it. He electrified her with fear, paralysed her voice, and reduced her to a cringing silence. And all this by his mere personality. Her hand shook so violently at meal-times, when alone she saw him, that the boy, conjecturing she needed internal applications to keep u,p her spirits, constantly replenished her glass. As soon as she could, she escaped to her own room. There, indeed, she spent the best part of the day, until it was cool enough to take a solitary walk on the Race-course. On the Race-course she would be sure to meet Mrs. Curtis, and to fee treated as one lady is usually treated by another.

Sacha never accompanied her on these walks. Indeed, if Sacha had her own way, she would never have walked at all. She had all the Oriental's hatred of movement, and could only be coaxed out of doors by her father, and then only to walk a short distance with him, or to go across to Mrs. Bradley's.

The Commissioner's wife had taken Sacha up violently; perhaps all the more because she realised that her Wednesday receptions were dwindling away. Sacha had a voice; that is she could sing fairly in tune. Mrs. Bradley proposed to teach her to sing. Sacha talked French, after t h e orthodox schoolgirl fashion. Mrs. Bradley offered to help her along in that language. Here ii was indeed a case of the blind leading the blind, bat Matthew Dobson did not know this, and only felt grateful for the help Mrs. Bradley was giving him with his daughter. And so it came about that every other day Matthew Dobson took Sacha round to Mrs. Bradley's, for he would not have dreamed of letting her walk there by herself, and immolated himself with cheerfulness on the altar of paternal duty. And Mrs. Bradley and Sacha sang "What are the wild waves saying?" or "I would that my love" until Mr. Bradley, a really musical soul, who had been vainly endeavouring to be deaf in the solitude of his own study, came in and took Matthew round to the Club, Mrs. Bradley faithfully promising to see Sacha home herself.

Which she generally did, in the; person of Harry Curtis. But neither Matthew Dobson nor Mrs. Curtis, nor the Commissioner, nor title Consul, heard of this arrangement.

Still, in spite of the Customs' patronage, as the summer wore away, and month after month passed, and no one but Mrs. Bradley seemed to, care that his Sacha was alive, a great bitterness against Foochow and its people grew up in Matthew Dobson, Had he not been systematically kind, straight-dealing and honourable to all? How came it about that all his acquaintances were snobs and sneaks? Why did they speak fair to him in the Club, and go about and insult him, in the person of his daughter, out of it? This was the abode of mean, low curs, and he would get out of it as soon as possible. Not this year; times were too bad. But in about two years more, then he would throw up China and go and live on the Continent, in some warm and sunny place in Italy. There Sacha should marry some Duke, and they would all be together for the rest of their lives. Two years, that was no time, and Sacha was well enough satisfied with Foochow as it was. She didn't care for any one, and no one cared for her. So much the better; for he wouldn't have let her marry any one in Foochow, not if they went down on their knees to beg him to do so.

And in judging as,he did of his daughter's whole-heartedness, Matthew Dobson was nearer the truth than was Mrs. Bradley herself.

CHAPTER VII.

The heat had passed, and a perfectly beautiful, rainless autumn had set in.

Just the weather for up-country expeditions, in those roomy, lofty, comfortable houseboats that are the envy of low-bridged, Shanghai. Just cool enough to make a blanket pleasant at night, and to make the singing of mosquitoes a harmless droning accompaniment. A China autumn is, in fact, the time when a man, full of contentment at his own lot, begins to feel doubtful whether after all mosquitoes, those curses of creation, may not have their own usefulness, as destroyers of cholera germs, absorbers of harmful bacilli, -- who knows what?

But there were no up-country trips for the Foochow people that year.

The tea-season had been a bad one, positively a disastrous one. Two of the biggest hongs in the settlement had failed, and that not in the most honourable fashion. For, thanks to ample settlements made on their wives, the shock fell lightly on the partners and the losses heavily on their creditors, Chinese as well as Europeans.

Mr. Cross's firm was the first to fail. And with him went, never to be seen again, Matthew Dobson's 20,000 taels, which to an old friend of many years' standing, like Cross, he had lent without security of any kind. But in spite of the serious inconvenience the loss of such a sum meant to Matthew Dobson, Mr. Cross nevertheless left in good odour with all the Foochow community. They commiserated him and his pretty wife; some even talked of getting up a testimonial to him as Churchwarden. And the Crosses went home by the Canadian Pacific route, took a comfortable house in Kensington, and lived happily ever afterwards.

But the Chinese merchants to whom he owed several hundred thousand taels, murmured loudly. His own servants, to whom wages were overdue, murmured too. And the autumn went on, and they got no work, and the winter promised to be a hard one. Those were evil days in Foochow city.

Next, the troops stationed in the city were changed, and with them came a new Viceroy, violently anti-foreign. He arrived just at the time when the missionaries, strengthened and refreshed by their three months' holiday at the seaside, were re-opening their winter campaign against heathenism. This yearly campaign, carried on with more zeal than discretion, usually lasted from October to June. The schools were re-opened, and various exceedingly new brooms, sc. new arrivals burning for a martyr's crown, careered aimlessly up country, in spite of Mr. Curtis's warning that the times were unsafe. For the last spring had seen riots in the Yangtsze valley, and those who could read the signs of the times predicted trouble very shortly in Foochow itself.

Just the time when foreigners ought to have been most friendly, most united amongst themselves. Unfortunately, it was just the time when the storm that had so long been threatening among the ladies, broke out.

During the whole summer, four solid months, Mrs. Bradley had been friends with Sacha Dobson, and had not quarrelled with Mrs. Curtis. Of course such an unnatural state of affairs could, not be expected to last.

Mrs. Curtis had borne with meekness the unpleasant meetings with, and forced introductions to, various member of the Outdoor Staff, only revenging herself on their unfortunate existence by gracefully ignoring, not catting them, on the next occasion she happened to meet them. That was fair, in the eyes of Foochow society. But Mrs. Bradley was getting really unbearable, the Consul's wife felt. Mrs. Curtis never could be sure what extraordinary person she might have to meet, -- e.g. that very evening as she prepared for a "pot-luck" dinner at the Commissioner's house.

So, like a wise woman, she took the precaution of finding out from her amah who Mrs. Bradley's guests, were to be.

Not the Dobsons, at any rate. For some inexplicable reason, Mrs. Bradley had never forced their society on Mrs. Curtis. In fact, she never spoke of them, and this silence was becoming suspicious to Mrs. Curtis.

"Mamma!" It was Annie who spoke, Annie who had been allowed to come in and see the finishing touches put to her mother's beauty, "Do you know Harry was walking home with Miss Dobson last night?"

Mrs. Curtis gasped -- perhaps from the tightness of her stays. "Annie, you are talking about what you don't understand. Run and see if the chairs are at the door."

But when she was gone Mrs. Curtis locked the door, and turning to the amah demanded if what Annie had said was true.

Certainly true, as every one in Foochow knew. The amah had only been waiting to be questioned for many weeks past; for naturally, she had no intention of volunteering any information. But now that Mrs. Curtis wanted to know, here was news indeed, in detail, and with circumstances that made the Consul's wife shiver with rage. Sacha's father did not know; here was the only hopeful point in the affair. But it was a bad case, a very had case, and if all the amah said was true, very nearly hopeless.

And now she had to go and dine with, and smile upon, the woman who was the heart and soul of this villainy!

For, prejudiced as she was against her, Mrs. Curtis did not for one moment entertain the idea that Sacha had conceived and carried through this flirtation all by herself. The girl was far too sleepy, too stupid if you like, to form such a plan. It was assuredly the work of Mrs. Bradley, done to spite Mrs. Curtis, and to ruin Harry's prospects.

But Mrs, Bradley should see that Mrs. Curtis was no fool, after all. She would fight her with her own weapons, and beat her too. And the campaign should begin to-night.

Butter could scarcely have melted in Mrs. Curtis's mouth that evening at Mrs. Bradley's table. Glycerine was vinegar in comparison with her. Mr. Bradley, who had really enjoyed the meal in her company, quite sighed when the ladies, who were simply his wife and Mrs. Curtis, rose to leave them.

But the moment she got in the drawing-room, Mrs. Curtis's manner changed. To speak plainly, the two ladies had a regular fight.

As they were alone, the exact details of that fight have never been clearly established. Each lady declared, in repeating the story to her friends -- of course it was all over Foochow next day -- that she had carried off the victory. One point is undoubted, that Mrs. Bradley, completely losing her temper, attempted, or actually did, box Mrs. Curtis's ears. What for is doubtful. Mrs. Bradley said it was on account of the scandalous things Mrs. Curtis had accused her of, in particular for declaring that, in former years, she had caused a divorce and a suicide in a port in which she happened to live. Mrs. Curtis declared that finding herself routed on every point in regard to the intrigue in question, Mrs. Bradley had attempted violence, and had only been restrained by Mrs. Curtis's quietly emptying a bowl of flowers over her head, -- which feat, in face of the fact that Mrs. Bradley was at least head and shoulders taller than Mrs. Curtis, must simply have bordered on the miraculous.

The noise that accompanied this scene finally penetrated to the dining-room, where the Consul and the Commissioner where smoking peacefully.

"What's the matter? Shall we go and see?" asked the Consul in alarm.

"No, no," answered Mr. Bradley quickly. "If they want us, they will send for us."

And he was right. Before long Mrs. Curtis's voice was heard calling for her chair and her husband. Nor did Mr. Bradley urge Mr. Curtis either to stay or to bid good-night to his hostess.

CHAPTER VIII.

Mrs. Curtis had made a great mistake in being the first to commence hostilities.

For Mrs. Bradley was getting tired, mortally tired, of Sacha. At first she had taken her up violently, and every day notes, written on the vilest of letter paper, even on the backs of circulars, and enclosed in the cheapest of envelopes, would arrive for "Miss Dobson." But of late these chits had decreased. Another favourite was arising, in the shape of a young and lively American, wife of a tide-surveyor, and if Mrs. Curtis had only known it, Sacha's days of preferment were over.

But of course this scene revived all Mrs. Bradley's dying affections, and she hastened to despatch a chit to Sacha next morning, inviting her to tea.

Now it happened that Sacha had a touch of fever that day, and could not keep the appointment. And so, about six o'clock, Matthew Dobson walked up to make his daughter's excuses.

Mrs. Bradley received him with joy. That day, although Wednesday, when she was "at home," she had not received a single visitor. She had not been able to recount her glorious triumph of last night to any one, except to her husband, who had received the intelligence with the quietness of despair.

"I am very sorry, very, very sorry, Harriet," lie said, "that you have quarrelled with Mrs. Curtis. I did hope you would have learned at last to keep quiet, so that we might have gone out of Foochow in peace. Mrs. Curtis isn't a quarrelsome woman,, and you might surely have kept on civil terms with her!"

"Indeed, I hadn't any wish to do so!" retorted Mrs. Bradley with a snort. "She is a most insufferable woman, snobbish to the last degree. Why, she absolutely insulted me, as I told you months ago, about Mr. Dobson's coming to call on me first. If you were the least manly, you would never have sat quietly by and seen your wife dragged through the mud like that. Oh, it was cruel, cruel! But only what I ought to have expected from you. Why don't you let me go away, and go back to your old bachelor life? I'm sure it would suit you much better!" And Mrs. Bradley, throwing up her arms, was about to subside on the sofa in a loud fit of hysterics when Mr. Bradley wisely gave in.

Now in an evil moment, soon after his marriage, Mr. Bradley had disclosed to his wife the secrets of his bachelor life. And,, ever after, he had been her slave in consequence of this openness. Deplore his foolishness as he might, Mr. Bradley was all the: same a ruined man in respect of marital authority, or even guidance. Whenever he dared even to suggest to his wife that her conduct was unwise, he was reminded of his own past, and his lips sealed by a threat to disclose his wild oats to the world.; And that threat invariably brought Mr. Bradley to a better frame of mind. For he was even more afraid of what the world thought of him than of what his wife thought.

But the present crisis was a troublesome one, and after he had succeeded in pacifying Mrs. Bradley, by promising to help her through any real difficulty, Mr, Bradley felt it his duty to try and represent to her that, by throwing Harry Curtis and Sacha Dobson together, she was acting without the support of Sacha's: father, which it would be wiser to get. And having started her on this tack, and flattered her pride by telling her it would require skilful engineering, the Commissioner departed up country for a week, danger or no danger, and trusted he would find the storm blown over by the time he came back.

If Sacha had come that afternoon, Mrs. Bradley must have told her everything. What people said about herself, how her friends defended her, and how angry Mrs, Curtis was at her son being led away. As Sacha did not come, she told it all to Mr. Dobson. For as she often thanked Heaven, there was no false delicacy about Mrs. Bradley. She called things by their right names, and wouldn't have minded speaking the truth to the devil himself. Why, therefore, should she mince matters with Matthew Dobson? -- a man who had so often told her racy stories, of not quite the kind retailed in general society. Why should it make any difference to him that the story was now about himself and his family? And it wasn't making any difference, either. She couldn't see his face well; the room was growing so dusk. But be was flicking away the insects with a fan just as regularly as ever. No, he scarcely stopped even when she told him how Miss Pointz had been won over, and was in daily and favoured communion with Mrs. Curtis, all without his knowledge.

Mrs. Bradley had begun to think he was not listening, and was proceeding to lay on the paint as regarded the intimacy of Harry and Sacha, when extraordinary to relate, the worm turned.

"Thank you, Mrs. Bradley. But, why didn't you tell me before?"

Whereupon he departed, leaving Mrs. Bradley somewhat surprised that this was his only good-night.

It was getting too late for him to go and walk himself calm before dinner. It was past seven, and pitch dark. Too late even to go to the club, even if he had felt inclined to laugh, and joke, and hear the news of the day, the usual "gup," after what he had just been hearing. He must make haste home, and try and coax Sacha to get up and come down to dinner. His poor Sacha! that they were all plotting against, and trying to ruin. "Why, oh why had he ever trusted her to that woman! He might have known that she would have no scruple in trying to play on her affections, and get her entangled and made a fool of, just to amuse herself and spite Mrs. Curtis. The names that Matthew Dobson was calling Mrs. Bradley at that moment were neither Christian nor parliamentary.

As to what he was to do, Matthew Dobson had quite made up his mind. He would, of course, dismiss Miss Pointz at once, making it a point that she should return to England. That he would do to-morrow morning, just in time to send her down to the Anchorage for the Hong Kong steamer. And the very next day he would take Sacha away for a two month's trip to Japan. It would do her good, and it would break this damned intimacy.

Not that Matthew for one moment dreamt of thinking Sacha had been unwise or deceitful. Deceit! -- there was not a scrap of guile in her, poor little soul. She knew no wrong, and suspected no wrong. And no wrong should come to her.

For Matthew Dobson had already composed in his mind a short and telling letter to the Inspector General of Customs in Peking. He evidently thought that no difficulty would be made about removing this luckless young Curtis during those two months in Japan. Of course, Matthew Dobson did not know that that day's steamer had already forwarded. the same request to Peking from two different quarters, to one and the same person. One was a confidential communication from the Commissioner; the other a private note from Mrs. Curtis.

His mind made up, Matthew Dobson felt a strange and delightful calmness creep over him. After all, the affair was so pimple, and might have been so much worse. It was all entirely in.his own hands, luckily, and he could trust himself to carry through anything he had planned. Even the coming interview with Miss Pointz was without any terrors. For he did not mean to accuse her of anything, or to give her any reason for her dismissal. He meant simply to pay her a certain number of dollars, and shew her the door. He had made a mistake in having out any companion for Sacha; an expensive mistake. But it was over and done with, and there was no use crying over spilt milk.

Sacha would not come down to dinner, and Miss Pointz sent a message to say she had a headache, and could not come. And Matthew Dobson felt glad he was free from her presence. He would have felt a Judas if he had been ordinarily civil to her; and it was of no use getting over the interview that night. She must have no time left to communicate with the enemy before leaving Foochow.

After dinner, having satisfied himself that Sacha did not intend to starve herself to death (on which point the boy who had waited on her might have amply contented him) he took an old and favourite long chair into the verandah, and began a very serious deliberation with himself.

Not about the immediate future; that was settled as irrevocably as though it had been already past. But about Sacha's distant future and prospects, when she had no longer her father to protect her.

Sacha was not a British subject of course, and he could not make her one. But he could make her an heiress, and he would do so. He ought to have done so long ago, only somehow or other he had. always put off making his will. Indeed, he would not have thought of it now, but for the way in which the falseness of Sacha's position had been forced upon him that day.

Yes, he would make a will the very next morning, without even waiting to do so till he passed through Hong Kong or Shanghai. Whitaker would help him to make it legal, and Whitaker was lying on his writing-table. He would go and fetch it now.

And it might also tell him, since you can find everything in Whitaker, whether it was possible for him to take out a summons against Mrs. Curtis for tampering with his governess.

Ah, that would indeed be a glorious triumph for Matthew! Fancy the agitation of Foochow at the mere threat of an action! Fancy the consternation of the Consul, the discomfiture of his wife!

What fun there would be over the scandal! He would get a lawyer and a reporter from Hong Kong; and then, he would go off to Japan and read the accounts of the trial in the newspaper! If only, by some good chance, she had said, or written, anything that was legally actionable. But had she? Or had Mrs. Bradley put into her own words Mrs. Curtis's sentiments only? At any rate, Matthew might as well get Whitaker just now, and see if he had anything to say about wills and libels.

He rose, and walked to the verandah window to throw away his cigar. And, looking out, he saw a red glow in the sky, a reflected glow, that he had seen only too often. It was the reflection of a fire in Foochow city.

The verandah ran all round the house, and from the other side Matthew would have a good view of the conflagration. A pretty big fire it evidently was, and one which came at an unusual time of year. In winter he would not have been astonished at it, in view of the utter carelessness of natives about cheap lamps, bed-curtains, and the other trifling circumstances, which are all that is required in a Chinese city for a big fire. But Foochow was in a ticklish state just then, what with secret societies, missionaries, and soldiers. So Matthew went round to see if he could tell what part of the city was in flames.

Bang went Miss Pointz's Venetians as he passed that modest spinster's apartment. Matthew smiled to himself as he thought this was the last night she would have to guard herself from his (possible) gaze. The back verandah was full of servants, all watching the fire, and chattering with perfect complacency over it.

"Wailo!" said Matthew impatiently, and they all fled. For Sacha's dressing-room looked out on this verandah, and the unmelodious voices of his household might awaken her from her sleep.

The head boy alone lingered near his master. He had served him for the last twenty-five years, and had known Sacha in her Formosa days. Yet he had invariably maintained a stolidity of manner as though she had been a perfect stranger to him, ever since her arrival in Foochow. He always listened with an immovable countenance both to oaths hurled at him and to blessings poured on him. Matthew Dobson had never tried to win this man, but had indeed always treated him more like a dog than a human being. The only tie between them was dollars, the master declared, with all the Englishman's contempt for a servile race. The boy had found this a good place for squeezing, and had stuck to it accordingly.

"What side fire, boy?"

"Jesus-man house."

Yes, it was undoubtedly the Presbyterian Mission Hospital that was in flames. And Matthew Dobson felt sure, as any other foreigner in his place would have felt sure, that this was the work of rioters. Surely be could distinguish yells and shrieks, even at this distance. It was impossible for a man of his temperament to stand by and see his fellow-countrymen done to death. Matthew Dobson was both strong and brave, and moreover flattered himself not a little on the hold he possessed over the natives. Clearly he was wanted over on the other side of the water.

But be must say good-night to Sacha first. She was evidently not in bed, by the light that streamed through her Venetians. Perhaps she was frightened at the glare in the sky, too frightened to call out to him. He did not wait to knock at her door, but turned the handle quietly and went in.

Sacha was lying on a long chair, reading a book, and eating a bit of chocolate.

"What is the noise outside, father?"

"Oh, only a fire in the city," he answered carelessly; "I shall go over and see it. You had better go to bed, Sacha."

"Yes, I'm going," she answered lazily. "You'll come in quietly, won't you, and not stamp about the house, and wake us all up?"

She put a yawning, sleepy face up for him to kiss. She never kissed him; she always left him to kiss her. Had she been asked why she did not perform this ordinary act of courtesy between father and child, she would have opened her eyes at the idea of such a duty being expected of her. Clearly men, fathers included, had been simply created to wait on women.

Good-night, Sacha. I'll be sure to come in quietly."

At so he did. Nothing could have been more awful in its quietness than the entry of Matthew Dobson into his own house the next morning. He came in, carried by two coolies, and covered with a cloth, and close behind him came his boy, carried in the same way.

And yet it was in no riot that Matthew had found his death. The fire had been the work of pure accident, and the Chinese braves were in no way connected with it. Before he reached the Hospital Matthew Dobson had indeed already begun to marvel at the ease with which he was allowed to jostle his way through the streets. The sick inside its walls were being carried out when he arrived on the scene. The Chinese were standing round, their hands in their pockets, not making a single effort either to aid in the rescue, or to prevent the fire from spreading any farther. Why should they, when they themselves would not be losers thereby, only foreigners, who owned all the houses round?

But they turned to run away, to view matters from a safer distance, when, with a crash, the roof of the Hospital fell in. It buried in its smoking ruins one martyr and two sinners, all hurried from life without a moment's warning.

One was a young missionary, only lately arrived. The other two were Matthew Dobson and his Chinese boy.

CHAPTER IX.

And what was to become of Sacha?

There was no difficulty in disposing of Miss Pointz. Her contract saved her. It was of necessity cancelled, and the Consul did not hesitate at once to hand over to her her passage-money home out of the dead man's estate. Of course she found it impossible to stay in the house after that terrible night, and took up her abode the very next morning with Mrs. Curtis, who found her exceedingly useful in taking Annie's education, temporarily, off her own hands.

Mrs. Bradley had, of course, been one of the first to hear the news, and swooped down on Matthew Dobson's house with the eagerness of a bird of prey. She longed to hear all particulars, and most distinctly came with this unsatisfied yearning as a prominent design in her mind. But to her mortification she found the Consul and his Assistant already in possession, and so could only content herself with finding out Sacha.

Sacha, filled with an infinite pity for herself, was crying loudly and unmusically when Mrs. Bradley went into her room. The day was a hot one, although October was drawing to an end, and Sacha was merely wrapped in a tea-gown, her bare feet in straw slippers, and her magnificent hair in one thick plait down her back. Matthew Dobson had never been able to rouse his daughter to an ordinary European costume in the early morning. Sacha had taken to ordinary Eastern undress quite simply and naturally, as though to be untidy and invisible before tiffin time had been part of her inheritance from her mother's side.

"Poor dear child!" cried the too sensitive Mrs. Bradley, "That I should have to mingle my tears with yours! Poor little lonely, deserted one!"

Sacha, upon being reminded of her grievous condition, grievous beyond what either she or Mrs. Bradley had a notion of, wept more copiously than ever. Mrs. Bradley, who had really come exclusively for particulars of the last night's tragedy, tried hard to stop the flood of tears. But finding that Sacha had sobbed, not only her eyes nearly out, but all her breath away, she went out of the room for the ostensible purpose of procuring cold water, but really to try and glean some intelligence from the Consul.

That worthy official was seeking strength and refreshment for mind and body at the dining-room sideboard. He shook his head with the solemn shake that only two glasses of sherry at least could produce on him, and greeted Mrs. Bradley with an amiability which was utterly oblivious of their last meeting, the memorable dinner of two nights before.

"A bad, a very serious business this is, I am afraid," he sighed, "Taken from us without any warning, any preparation!"

Mr. Curtis may have mistaken, or he may only have been confusing, Mrs. Bradley's portly form and sweeping robes with such a dignitary as the Roman Catholic Bishop, who, as a warm friend of Matthew Dobson's, had been one of the earliest visitors at his house. At any rate, he did not address the Commissioner's wife by name for several minutes, not indeed until she asked:

"What is to become of Sacha just now? Surely she ought not to stay here by herself!"

"No, Mrs. Bradley, no! no! no!" said the Consul with unnecessary reiteration. "But to tell you the truth, I don't know where to send her; I don't know in the least where to send her. My wife hag taken such a -- ahem, ahem, -- prejudice against her, doesn't like her, you understand. And everything is in such a confusion here, I don't seem to be able to find any papers,; business papers, you know. You understand there must be papers somewhere. You're a clever woman, Mrs. Bradley, and understand business, and Sacha -- "

He was getting very involved, between his wine-glass and bis words. Mrs. Bradley interrupted him unceremoniously enough:

"Do you want to get rid of Sacha until her father's affairs, are settled up?"

"Oh, I daresay the French Sisters would take her in," Mr. Curtis said. "Of course she could pay them, back afterwards. Her father must have left her a lot of money. She will be a catch for all our needy young fellows, in spite of her dark skin!"

"I will take charge of her, if you like," Mrs. Bradley said hastily. "I came down to take her away now."

"Very kind indeed of you," grinned the Consul. "Yes, she's far better out of this house."

But he did not think it necessary to tell Mrs. Bradley that, if he could not find a will, a document which, knowing Matthew Dobson's carelessness in business matters, as lately illustrated with regard to Mr. Cross, he did not expect to find, Sacha Dobson was a penniless beggar, without a name and without a cent. It was most distinctly no business of his to prevent Mrs. Bradley from doing what after all was a pure act of charity simply because she would probably get no reward thereby. But on the strength of having saddled Mrs. Bradley with a useless burden, he could afford to take another glass of sherry. His wife would forgive him all when he told her how cleverly he had managed to take in her arch-enemy. And, as the wise of this world make their subordinates do the manual labour, while they sit and act as the brain of any undertaking, so Mr. Curtis, his sherry finished, threw himself into an arm-chair, and left his Assistant and the constable to open boxes and drawers, seal them up, and do everything that by law a Consul is bound to do.

CHAPTER X.

Mrs. Bradley's wrath against Mr. Curtis when she heard next day from her husband, hurriedly summoned from up-country the chaotic state of Matthew Dobson's affairs, knew no bounds, and was only surpassed in intensity when it became a certain and uncontestable fact that Matthew Dobson, having died intestate, and without any legal relatives, had thereby enriched her Majesty's Supreme Court by some 80 or 90,000 taels.

"You don't actually mean it, Theodore!" she exclaimed in horror. "That, though she is his own daughter, she won't get a cent of all his money? Who'll get it then, pray?"

This was asked in a sarcastic tone calculated to make any Supreme Court wince. But luckily for itself, the Supreme Court had no nerves and no feelings, and so Mr. Bradley hastened to explain.

"And, Harriet, you ought to have considered there was just such a possibility before you took the girl in. You can't turn her out now; and what are you going to do with her, if they can't find any papers about her?"

"Oh, but they will, they are sure to!" answered Mrs. Bradley, assuming a confidence she was far from feeling. And if not, why she will have to go to her Chinese relations."

"Impossible! My dear, you can't be thinking of what you are saying!"

Mr. Bradley had not been thinking of what he was saying, rather. So he found to his cost a few minutes later. And having sent her husband off to the office in a properly subdued frame of mind, Mrs. Bradley sat down to write a long and not particularly lucid account of her present dilemma to a friendly lawyer in Hong Kong, from whom she hoped to get advice without having to pay for it. For what good is it to be friends with any professional man if you cannot make use of him, in an unofficial way, when you are in need of his particular stock-in-trade?

This letter finished, Mrs. Bradley thought it would be just as well to go and give Sacha a hint, only a very gentle hint, of what her future might possibly be. So she went up to Sacha's room, and walked in without knocking at the door. The knocks Sacha would have at her door were numbered now.

Sacha, tired of pitying herself and fatigued from trying on her new mourning, was lying with a novel on the bed. Mrs. Bradley invariably in her hourly visits found her either asleep, or reading a novel, or eating chocolate, of which last she seemed to have an exhaustless store. These employments had seemed all right in an heiress, but Mrs. Bradley felt she would not be doing her duty by her guest if she did not now seek to arouse her to those stern realities of life which were coming crowding on her.

"Sacha," she began, "your father left no will at all."

"No, I suppose he didn't," Sacha answered indifferently, at the same time turning over the leaf of her book.

Mrs. Bradley felt annoyed at this act of discourtesy. It was high time Sacha should be shaken into life.

"And so you are a beggar, without a penny!"

Here was a bombshell, indeed. Sacha absolutely laid down her book, and lifted her sleepy eyes on Mrs. Bradley's face.

"Hadn't he any money, then?"

A most natural question to ask, but one that exasperated Mrs. Bradley immensely.

"Yes, heaps of money. Only, you won't get it!"

"Why?"

If only Sacha had sat up, and taken more interest in the whole concern, and not been so utterly indifferent, so provokingly unmoved, Mrs. Bradley might have softened her intelligence. At least, that was how she excused herself to her own conscience afterwards. Just at that moment all Mrs. Bradley felt was that a girl, who had never even asked to see her dead father, never wanted to attend his funeral, never wanted to know how he had died, who had only contented herself with the fact that he was dead, and by dying had deserted her -- that such a girl was one whose feelings could not be touched, whose senses could not be shocked, even by learning she was a social outcast, only tolerated, and that for a time in the Commissioner's house from charity.

"You are no daughter of his," she began; and in a few minutes all the beliefs of Sacha's childhood were lying in ruins round her. The Oriental Princess, the mysterious distant fatherland, all those myths were stripped of their gilding. And, taking Sacha's silence for unbelief, Mrs. Bradley spared no words as she went on to impress upon the unfortunate Eurasian what every one in the place thought of her.

A knock at the door, and a card put into Mrs. Bradley's hand, interrupted her finally.

"You have only me to thank that you are not obliged to go to your mother and your Chinese relations, wherever they are!"

And Mrs. Bradley swept out of the room, wondering what had brought Miss Pointz to call, and leaving Sacha to digest what she had heard.

But the meat she had been expected to assimilate was far too strong for Sacha. Mrs. Bradley must be a little tipsy (Sacha had heard her father express his doubts on that head before) and had been talking rubbish, absolute rubbish. If her father had died without a will, even granting that her own mother was no Princess, but one married in a Chinese fashion, still Sacha must be the heiress. Who should get the money if she didn't? This mood lasted with Sacha until she had finished up all her chocolate. Then, the book being exceedingly uninteresting, she began to think seriously and doubtfully over what she had just been told.

Thinking was always a troublesome business to lazy Sacha, who vastly preferred having her thinking done for her. Supposing after all Mrs. Bradley was right? What possible motive could she have had for speaking if she were wrong?

Sacha's cheeks began to tingle with wounded pride and self-love, and anger against that dead father who had never done anything but love her. Love her! yes, but what had his love been worth? Far better if he had loved her less, and not left her as she was now left. Left to be a laughing-stock to those stuck-up, unkind women, who were harder than door-nails, and merciless to a depth she was only just beginning to fathom.

Ridiculous it was, though, to believe what such a woman as Mrs. Bradley said! Sacha felt herself to be far too refined, far too aristocratic, to have ever had such a mother. It was worth while risking the going to her, Chinese though she was, just to prove to Mrs. Bradley what a liar she was!

But if what she had heard was true?

Then there only remained for Sacha to quit a world that was so hard on her, a world that held out to her no hope in the future, a world with no one who cared for her, no one who 'grieved in her griefs, nor rejoiced in her joys. In short, there only remained for her the death of her last heroine of fiction, a suicide by drowning in just such a lovely river as this near her old home.

It was nearly tea-time, but Sacha felt no inclination for tea. [Small wonder, after all the chocolate she had devoured.] She put on a very favourite dress, a favourite of her father's, deliberately chose a becoming hat and parasol, and walked out of the house and down to the river, to drown herself.

Meanwhile Mrs. Bradley had been having an exciting interview with Miss Pointz.

That lady, as the Commissioner's wife soon managed to find out, had come not on her own account, but on an embassy from Mrs. Curtis.

Mrs. Curtis had felt many qualms in sending forth this ambassador, for her mission was a most delicate one. But it was of course absolutely impossible for Mrs. Curtis to enter Mrs. Bradley's door after their last parting. And yet the business brooked no delay.

Better, far better, would it have been to have risked anything, even personal insult, than to have sent unskilful and already half-offended Miss Pointz that day. For Mrs. Bradley could cross-examine and bully a witness without any of that false modesty or refinement which is generally supposed to keep people from prying too closely into their neighbours' concerns. And to her in a few moments Mrs. Curtis's fears, motives, and precautions were as clear as daylight.

First, Mrs. Curtis was afraid that her son Harry wanted to marry Sacha Dobson.

This marriage would utterly ruin his prospects, and drag down his family's reputaton.

Secondly, Mrs. Curtis had a remedy for this threatened evil. It was, to send Sacha to England along with Miss Pointz.

To accomplish this end, Mrs. Curtis had started an amazing hypothesis, which she actually expected Mrs. Bradley to accept. It was, that very likely -- possibly -- perhaps -- Miss Mary Dobson, Matthew's sister deceased, of whose late existence she had only heard during the last few days from Miss Pointz, might have left Sacha her own property. If so, then Sacha ought to go home and claim it.

But, when pressed as to her personal opinion of this problematic fortune, Miss Pointz was obliged to admit to Mrs. Bradley that she did not believe in its existence. She further admitted that she had never dreamed of such a possibility till Mrs. Curtis herself had suggested it.

"And how did Mrs. Curtis expect Sacha was to pay for her passage home?"

Miss Pointz said Mrs. Curtis had thought the money might possibly be saved out of personal property to be realised.

"Ah!"

Mrs. Bradley could not restrain her mirth. She laughed so long and so loudly that Miss Pointz got absolutely indignant.

"It does not seem to me an utterly impossible thing, Mrs. Bradley," she began, nervously scratching an imaginary mosquito out of her lap. "At the time Miss Mary Dobson died none of us thought anything about her property. Mr. Dobson was alive then, and he probably had it handed over to him."

"Unless she had no property to hand, and he had been supporting her for the whole of her life!"

Mrs. Bradley was guessing; but she guessed in such a confident tone that she convinced Miss Pointz at once that this had been actually the case.

"If this be so," she said, shifting uneasily, "I don't see why Sacha should go home with me."

"Nor do I, Miss Pointz," said Mrs. Bradley, bursting into what was literally a roar of laughter. "Unless, when you have got her home, you feel inclined to support Sacha Dobson yourself!"

"Oh, that would be perfectly out of the question!" stammered Miss Pointz in the greatest alarm. "I have no means; I must make my own living, I could not -- "

"Miss Pointz," Mrs. Bradley put in, rising and standing over her visitor much in the way a Jinn in the Arabian Nights might have done, "Mrs. Curtis has been making a cat's-paw of you. She wants to get Miss Dobson out of the place, and has determined, if she can't do it by fair means, to do it by foul. No, listen to me, you silly woman, I'm only speaking in your own interests. What does it matter to Mrs. Curtis if she saddles you with this girl, so long as you are in England, and she is in China? Could you turn her out into the streets? Could you induce her to move one inch to earn her own living? That's too old a trick to be played on us China hands, that sending-home pidgin! We only send home people that are inconvenient to us. It doesn't matter to us if they are inconvenient to you in England. Oh, you have let yourself be made a fool of!"

The feeling that the Curtis family, in the person of the Consul, had made pretty nearly as big a fool of Mrs. Bradley herself, by saddling her with Sacha, prevented the Commissioner's wife from picking her words. And Miss Pointz was too thoroughly frightened at the hideous plot that had just been laid bare before her, a plot eminently calculated to land her in the workhouse, to resent Mrs. Bradley's plain Saxon.

"I will most certainly refuse to take charge of Sacha to England," she said, rising in such a flurry that her mother-of-pearl card-case fell hopelessly on the floor in its usual two pieces [who ever saw a mother-of-pearl card-case unbroken at the hinges?], and the cards lay scattered on the ground. "And I thank you exceedingly, Mrs. Bradley, for the interest you have taken in me to-day."

"Oh, good-bye!" said Mrs. Bradley carelessly. But her visitor had not left the house long before she had indited an epistle to Harry Curtis inviting him to dinner that evening.

"For, though Sacha might be very glad if I could find a storekeeper who would marry her," thought Mrs. Bradley, "still it would be the best day's work of my life if I could get young Curtis to do so. I really believe his mother would die of it on the spot!"

Which gloomy prospect raised Mrs. Bradley's spirits to a height no thermometer has ever been known to record.

CHAPTER XI.

Sacha walked down to the river and along its banks till she came to the right place for drowning.

Just opposite to her was an island, beautifully wooded, with an old Joss-house in the midst. Right away in the distance she could see the dim outline of the arches of that wonderful bridge, the pride of Foochow, the Bridge of Ten Thousand Ages. She would be carried through those arches, down, down; and round the corner she would drift among the sand-banks, and the cargo-boats, and the house-boats and steam-launches. They would fish for her with a boat-hook, and drag her out, with her mouth filled with water, her eyes turned up, that ugly yellow hue over her that she had so often heard of. She would lie in the cool evening air, with the breeze just making the bamboo-groves far off sound like distant peals of church-bells, -- dead. And then she would be buried, and the rain would come down on her grave, so cold, so damp, so lonely. Sacha felt that she must realise all these feelings, were she dead ten times over.

And further, in the dying she would instinctively struggle not to die. And the struggle would mean pain, and Sacha shrank from pain as she did from everything horrible or terrible. She could not drown herself, in the afternoon, while so many Chinese were on the river. Foreigners too, for there came a canoe under the old bridge. She must come and drown herself at night, when the stars would make her feel how far away heaven was from her, and the earth could only offer her damp mists and sighing trees.

To tell the truth, Sacha was far too great a coward to drown herself at any time. When small, she had often, in a fit of temper, resolved to throw herself out of an upstairs window, and bring a cruel teacher or relative to undying remorse, if not the gallows, by her body falling past the class-room or sitting-room. But she had never got even to putting one leg outside the window. It is so much easier to think an heroic death than to die one.

This afternoon Sacha made up her mind that, since she must die, she would poison herself with opium. That was a pleasant, a painless way of dying. They would come in and find her a la Cleopatra, but without the asp-bite. She would go home and send for the opium at once.

"Good evening! Miss Dobson. I've brought you some sweets."

Poor Harry Curtis had been turning over and over in his mind for the last three days how he could possibly convey his sympathy to Sacha in her loss. He dreaded, with all the dread of an honest and sympathetic nature, hurting her either by ignoring her trouble, or by offering her pity which she might resent. What he had heard said about her at his mother's house, and at the Junior Mess, had filled him with indignant amazement. But he was only twenty-three, a very young Englishman, with the brainless, idiotic English unreasonableness which takes up the cudgels for the weak and undefended simply because they are weak and undefended. Harry Curtis was not overburdened with brains; any one could tell that by looking at his freckled face with its insignificant, wide-nostrilled nose, and his pale grey eyes set so wide apart. He liked all women; and, as the only girl in Foochow, he had hitherto liked Sacha in that safe brotherly way which usally ends in a life-long cordiality, but in nothing more. Mrs. Curtis had only herself and her imprudent tongue to blame for the present change in Harry's feelings, and consequently in his behaviour.

After long and serious deliberation, Harry had resolved to buy and send Sacha a packet of sweets. He knew her weakness for them of old. Who was there to give her chocolate now? She should know that there was one at least left who studied her tastes. But, should he let her know who that one was?

As he paddled back in his canoe after buying the sweets he deliberated over this question. Then he caught sight of Sacha sitting all alone by the river. And the question answered itself.

"No thank you! Mr. Curtis."

Sacha was beyond sweets to-day. Beyond anything but tears, tears of loneliness and misery and hopelessness, tears that only wanted this little kindness to drop quicker and quicker down on her hands, which nervously began folding up the parasol.

And those tears were the only thing wanting to make Harry Curtis lose his head entirely. His future, his present, his people, his friends, all were flung to the winds, and only Sacha and her trouble filled his horizon.

"Please don't cry," he said, awkwardly sitting down and clutching at her hand. "I do care for you so much; I can't bear to see you cry."

Where was Sacha's pride? She ought to have snatched away her hand, and turned round and stamped her foot at him, rand told him that she, an outcast, spurned him and his. But Eurasians have no pride, as they have no backbone against adversity. Sacha just went on crying, and what was still more shocking, because so immodest, told him all Mrs. Bradley had said, and called on him to deny it to her. Which he of course promptly did, with many foolish additions. In short, by the time this silly young fellow had taken her home, and seen her in Mrs. Bradley's safe keeping, he had so far committed himself that the engagement was that evening the talk of Foochow. And from that evening also dated a long and serious nervous illness on the part of Mrs. Curtis, which illness and its natural sequence of shattered health, finally ended in the Consul's resigning his commission.

* * * * *

"Well, I hope you are satisfied with your day's work, Harriet," said Mr. Bradley wearily to his wife, as the door closed on Harry Curtis. Mr. Bradley was vexed at this engagement, and at his wife's share in bringing it about. He liked young Curtis, and he did not think Sacha good enough for him.

"It will draw all Mrs. Curtis's front teeth," was Mrs. Bradley's elegant answer. "And that was what I did it for."

"But she's so selfish, so ignorant, so lazy!" objected Mr. Bradley. "She's not fit to be a poor man's wife. And a very poor, man's wife she'll have to be, for Curtis will either have to break off this engagement, or leave the Customs altogether. The I.G. will never sanction it."

"That's Curtis's look-out! At any rate, Sacha is very fit to be Ms wife!" Mrs. Bradley said scornfully. "What do you think he told me she said when he asked her to marry him? -- 'I'd marry any one who would be kind to me!' -- Fancy what an ambition! Fancy wanting nothing else in a husband! And fancy his repeating that in rapture, as though she had said something so wonderfully clever! They're just birds of a feather! Besides which, there's no fear for their future. Idiots of that stamp always fall on their feet and prosper!"

* * * * *

Mr. Curtis has long since retired from China, and settled at Bath. His wife has a large circle of friends, to whom she is never tired of descanting on the glories and comforts of China coast life.

"My daughter-in-law," Annie heard her saying to an ancient General's maiden sister the other day, "is a Princess in her own rights, and my grandchildren might all call themselves Serenities, if they chose. Compare this upstart aristocracy of ours in England with the nobility of the East! There is birth, and blue blood, if you like!"

And as Annie held her peace, the visitor went away crushed.

OF THE NOBLE ARMY.

Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him: hut weep sore for Mm that goeth away: for he shall return no more, nor see his native country.

INTRODUCTORY.

THE Reverend Antony Sweetapple had always been a good boy, and he grew up to be a good young man. Certainly, he had never been exposed to any violent temptations. His parents, excellent coffee-planters in India, had sent him home at an early age, to be brought up by his uncle, the Reverend Josiah Sweetapple, Baptist minister in a small country town. The Reverend Josiah, who was childless, and his wife, Antony's aunt, every year received a liberal sum to pay for Antony's education, as well as for his board. But his uncle, dreading nothing so much for the boy as the unholy freedom of school life, and judging that where a number of youths were congregated, there vice must necessarily flourish, kept his brother's son and his brother's money to himself. The money the Rev. Josiah considered he fully earned by the instruction he personally gave to Antony.

Antony's parents both died while he was still a child. They did not leave much behind them, but of what little there was Josiah Sweetapple took care, and re-invested it for his nephew's benefit. Josiah Sweetapple was one of that countless unnumbered multitude who believe they understand investments and stocks and shares. In all good faith he put Antony's money into various enterprises; fully expecting them to pay the 10, 12, and 15 per cent, promised him. And when the companies liquidated, and Antony's little fortune was nearly all gone, his uncle did what he thought a noble act by his ward. He sent him at his own expense to a Baptist Training College in London, and got him appointed, as soon as he was old enough, as a city missionary. And by so doing he did both his nephew and the Mission good service. For the young man was worthy of his sphere. He believed in his work, and he believed in himself. And so the first two years of his mission life were happy, even if not very successful.

Successful they somehow were not, as even the sanguine Antony was forced to admit to himself. There was an indescribable, indefinite something between him and those he was so anxious to benefit. There was no sympathy between them, nor could there ever be. The pure, spiritually-minded, ignorant-of-life young city missionary could not realise the temptations, the dangers, the difficulties, of those he worked amongst. They were very low, the dwellers in his district, and much more beasts than men. On the other hand, Antony Sweetapple was more an angel, or at any rate more a hermit, than a man. He and his slum-parishioners had not a single idea, thought or wish in common. He went in and out among them, telling them they were wrong, terribly wrong, but shewing them no definite way of getting right other than through some vague theological belief; bidding them get "the eye of faith" when they were searching in vain for daily bread, and be girt with the "sword of the Spirit" when they trembled before Jack the Ripper.

And then, when his soul was most east down within him, Antony Sweetapple got his call to his life-work.

He took a holiday, one fine May morning, and went off to Exeter Hall to seek some refreshment for mind and body.

He arrived in the midst of a densely-packed Missionary meeting. An old American Missionary, with venerable white beard and ruddy cheeks, his legs cased in Bishop's gaiters, was winding up what had evidently been a most effective speech, judging by the vast array of pocket-handkerchiefs and salts'-bottles and vinaigrettes Antony saw around him.

"The harvest truly is plentiful," the old Bishop said, "but the labourers are few. What are we, a mere handful, in the midst of this great, this ancient empire? Day and night come up to us, from far and near, the cry of this people -- 'Help us! help us! we perish!' And we, what are we amongst so many? Our missionaries labour and toil, and gather in rich harvests, but they are men after all, and cannot cover one-hundredth, nay, not one-millionth, of the ground open to us. My friends, there are 350,000,000 dying, perishing Chinese at this moment, and how many missionaries of all denominations do you think we have for them? Barely 1,000!! Who is sufficient for this great work? Who is worthy for it? Is there any one here who can put his hand to this plough, turning his back on all that England can offer? Is there any who can count his life as of no value -- for the Gospel? Is there any who can risk his life, his health, all that he holds near and dear, to answer this great cry? If there be, if I could stir up one to come and join that noble army who are bearing aloft the banner of this Gospel, shedding the light of salvation amongst those who walk in darkness and in the shadow of death, let him come and give himself to this glorious work. And all you who cannot give yourselves, give what you can give, -- your worldly goods, -- and thus lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven!"

The Bishop sat down, and mopped the perspiration from his brow, while the hymn, "There's a cry from Macedonia" was announced and sung amidst vigorous snifflings.

And Antony Sweetapple leaned against a door of the hall, and gazed before him, into the future.

What a glorious life! what a glorious privilege! To be called to serve in the front rank of the great Army of Martyrs: to go where no one before had gone: to pioneer for Truth! For the first time in his life poor Antony, weary and troubled in spirit by reason of his many failures, felt a great envy for another's fate, and a great longing to be free to join in the work of converting the heathen.

They were praying now, and Antony, as he knelt down close to the door, heard them asking for volunteers, for missionaries for China. And even as he knelt and prayed with the others, he felt an overwhelming wave of resolution sweep over him, and tear him loose from all his old moorings. Before he rose from his knees Antony Sweetapple had made up his mind that he would be one of the thousand new missionaries for whom they were praying.

Hardships, sufferings, torture, death, even, -- of what account could these be to him? Antony had all the spirit of an enthusiast, of a fanatic. Had he been born a Hindoo, he would certainly either have prostrated himself in front of the car of Juggernaut, or sat motionless for seven years, as Buddha did, under the Bo tree. Had he been a Roman Catholic, he would have become a Trappist, and lived "the world forgetting, by the world forgot." But as he was a Protestant, and a Dissenter, and totally ignorant of the possibility of there being two sides, much less two answers, to any question, he became a Protestant missionary.

And judging, by some extraordinary intuition, that his uncle and aunt would utterly disapprove of his new departure, which to him really meant a farewell for ever to all he had ever known, or striven after, or desired, he did not tell them he had made an application to the Baptist Missionary Society for work in China. He did not even give his uncle's name as reference and guarantee for himself, but that of one of his fellow-workers in the City Mission. He knew very well that, down in his uncle's district, a pretty Sunday-School teacher had been selected by his friends for his life-companion. A companion suitable enough, had his lot been cast in England.' But, as a warrior against the awful dragon of heathenism, he dared not entangle himself with the affairs of this life. He was vowed to the Lord, and he could never belong to another.

And so it was only after the white cliffs of England had faded for ever from Antony Sweetapple's eyes, that his uncle and aunt and the pretty Sunday-School teacher knew they would see his face no more.

CHAPTER I.

Antony Sweetapple's mind was too firmly fixed on his goal to take much interest in the places he touched at on the way. True, the Bay of Biscay gave him a few searchings of heart as to whether he had treated his uncle well in not giving him notice of his departure. The heat in the Red Sea seemed something of a judgment on him for deserting the City slums. But Ceylon and its lepers, and Singapore's coal-begrimed wharves, did not occupy his thoughts for one passing moment. He heeded not flying fish, nor the glorious thunder-storms in the Indian Ocean. He sat on the same seat, one which commanded only a view of the cooking-galley, day after day, and read all he could about China and the Chinese.

But alas for Antony, or the Chinese he was to come in contact with! The only books, or writings, he had been furnished with were volumes upon volumes of missionary reports, missionary letters, and missionary views on heathenism in China! Very good, excellent, quite the best reading for a young recruit perhaps, but sadly insufficient, inaccurate, even misleading to one who, like Antony Sweetapple, was desirous of seeking out and finding some common ground on which to take up a position that would be intelligible to his future hearers. From these missionary reports Antony carried away some false impressions he never was able to shake off. And even, at the present time they perplexed him sorely, and opened up endless doubts and misgivings in his mind, by reason of the exceedingly disagreeable facts they forced on his notice.

First, he found out that there were Roman Catholic missionaries in China, and that they were engaged in trying to undo everything the Protestant missionaries wanted to do. But he was not told -- the Baptist Mission did not consider it necessary for him to know -- that they had been there for centuries, long before Protestant missionaries, treaties, and gun-boats, when Christianity meant torture and death.

Second, he found that he would have to learn the Chinese language, and that this was not easy.

And third, he found that preaching was not at all a life-and-death matter; that it was only very occasionally listened to with any interest, and that, in short, the Chinese nation in the present day seemed simply indifferent to it.

These three convictions only came gradually to him, and only weighed on his mind when the vessel was rolling or pitching a good deal. When the weather was fine, and he was tired of reading up about China, he had many pleasant spiritual talks with a young lady, also going out as a missionary, although to a different part of China.

Had Antony Sweetapple's mind not been filled with his call to mission work, which utterly prevented his dreaming of the affairs of this world, he might easily have seen that the young lady's interest in her spiritual friend was not altogether uninfluenced by his personal attractions. But he was a modest young man, and terribly afraid of feminine blandishments, even when wrapped up in Scriptural interpretations and Bible readings. Still, association with a congenial mind for any length of time is dangerous, and Antony's life might have been changed, and this history never written, had not a most unlucky experience blasted his confidence in the discretion of the lady.

"She was such a new broom!" as the officers remarked to each other; "so devoted!" as a missionary of experience would have said -- that she tried to begin operations on some of her fellow-passengers. And one of these, a fat Singapore Chinaman, travelling to Hongkong on business, gave her an attentive hearing. Nay more, he seemed quite anxious, quite thirsty for the good news. He came and sat down by her side on deck, and listened to her discourse with many an approving "All light!" Once he even tried to enter into conversation with her, and though perhaps his questions did not deal exclusively with religion, yet, as she explained to Antony Sweetapple, he was evidently inclined to be friendly, and that was all she could hope for as yet.

"I have promised him some tracts, in Chinese, which I had given to me before I came away," she added. "I must go and give them to him now."

And away she went, and Antony absolutely felt a pang of jealousy, shoot through him. Not that he was jealous of the Chinaman, oh no! but that he envied his travelling companion her easy success.

It was always so much easier for a woman to gain hearts than for a man! This Chinaman had never deigned to take the slightest notice of Antony. And yet here he was, already receiving tracts from a lady.

He was so deep in these mortifying reflections that he noted not what was passing around him. But that something was passing below-stairs was very evident to two or three stewards who had been lounging near him, for they dived down the companion and ran quickly along one of the passages. The clatter of their boots on the brass-bound stairs roused Antony, and he too listened. There was a commotion going on just below him, and a mingled sound of shrieks for help, and voices of Celestials in a terrestrial key, with an under-current of the strongest Saxon language, came up through the open ventilator.

And as he roused himself wearily to go and rebuke, as he felt he was bound to do, the profane tongues, they suddenly died away, and the voice of the captain took their place. And then followed a scuffling of feet, and a locking of doors, and the ruddy face of the peace-maker appeared close to Antony.

"Mr. Sweetapple," he said, addressing his passenger for the first time since Antony had set foot on the vessel, "I think you are responsible for the behaviour of all the lady-missionaries on board." [There was only the one, and Antony, though he felt himself blushing furiously, could not find it in his heart to disown her.] "Well, will you please see that no more preaching is done here, or take the consequences yourself?"

"I am always ready to take all the consequences of preaching," Antony answered with what he knew to be true nobility. "But I cannot promise for myself, far less for another, not to speak the Word if we have an opportunity."

The captain looked at him with undisguised contempt.

"Well, you deserve to get treated just as your friend has been used just now. I'll leave the steward to explain it to you!"

And off he walked to the second officer, with whom he had a few minutes' conversation that seemed to give both of them infinite mirth.

But the news the steward furnished Antony with afforded him anything but mirth. Nay, it gave him such a horror of female work that he never all his life was able to dwell on this aspect of missionary labour with fairness or sympathy.

The case was simply this: the Chinaman had mistaken the drift of his invitation to the lady's cabin. He had not come for tracts, and although quickly bundled to his own quarters by stewards who happened to be within hearing, the shock to the budding lady-missionary's nerves was so severe that she was only seen again by her fellow-passengers as she was assisted into a sampan on leaving the vessel at Hongkong.

CHAPTER II.

It was a beautiful October morning, one of the most beautiful of a perfect autumn. September with its dank, malarious clouds and rain was over, and the Yungkiang community had arrived at that time of year when a fire is pleasant in the evening, in spite of the half-dead mosquitoes it brings out.

The window in Mrs. Masters' dining-room was wide open, and at the table sat Mrs. Masters herself, busily engaged, together with Miss Evans, in wrapping up and directing a number of Reports on their Missionary Hospital.

The two ladies had begun their work at ten o'clock and it was now nearly half-past eleven. Certainly a very small proportion of it lay ready for the post, but the two were tired already, and so considered themselves entitled to a short rest.

"Yes, it was this arrival, of which neither of us knew anything, that brought us back a whole week too soon from the Hills," Mrs. Masters said. "Quite too bad of the Shanghai Committee, I think! Why couldn't they have kept him a week longer up there, to shew him the work? We had to wait a whole week at the beginning of summer, and didn't get up to the Hills till the 7th of July this, year, because the rains had so swollen the river that we couldn't get under the bridges. A whole week taken out of our holiday!"

Mrs. Masters was evidently feeling deeply aggrieved, and recounting a much-resented wrong. She was a pale-faced, rather delicate-looking lady, about thirty years of age, dressed in a negligent invalid's attire. For she was chronically more or less of an invalid, and had been so ever since her marriage some two years before, when she had become the sixth wife of Dr. Masters, the head of the Baptist Mission in Central China. No one had ever fathomed what was the matter with Mrs. Masters; but she herself, backed up by the authority of the missionary doctor attached to their Mission, described it as "nerves." This convenient illness served to excuse her from all duties that involved unpleasantness, and necessitated a great deal of attention on the doctor's part. According to him, Mrs. Masters' symptoms almost implied the discovery of a new disease, and were quite worthy of being made known to the homoeopathic world of physicians, among whom he had assumed a degree unconferred by any known medical body.

The other lady, Miss Evans, was a somewhat vinegar-visaged spinster of uncertain age, with straight reddish locks cropped close to her head, and a figure which its owner had determined should owe nothing to art, in return for which determination nature had avenged art by making the circumference of her waist almost equal to that of her shoulders. Add to this that Miss Evans was dressed after the most approved hygienic fashion, in shades from which all dyes or bleaches had been rigorously excluded, that her hands were large and red without being shapely, and that her mouth was habitually drawn slightly crooked, and it must be agreed that Mrs. Masters, even with the circles of ill-health under her eyes, and the lines of listless self-indulgence that were forming round her mouth, would be far more agreeable as a wife than Miss Evans.

And yet the elder lady had once, not so very long ago, in fact ever since the death of the fifth Mrs. Masters, been a rival for the heart of the widower! Yes, and very nearly a successful rival too, for her knowledge of the local dialect was the envy of all zealous missionaries. But a most untimely attack of prickly heat on the face had necessitated her retirement from the contest when victory, obtained through timely help in the translation of a tract entitled A Nut for Sceptics to Crack, was almost within her grasp. When Miss Evans emerged from her temporary retirement the tract was finished, and Dr. Masters was engaged to his present wife.

Long and bitterly Miss Evans had resented the interloper. It was only Mrs. Masters' failing health and spirits that had, indeed, reconciled her at last. At least, that was how Mrs. Simpson, the malicious little wife of the Mission doctor, accounted for the friendship that of late months had taken the place of the old enmity. Miss Evans, so said Mrs. Simpson, was qualifying for No. 7.

"He has arrived, has he?" ejaculated Miss Evans. "Staying with you, is he? What is he like? Is he married?"

"I assure you," Mrs. Masters answered, helping herself to a sandwich from a well heaped-up plate at her elbow -- for of course her nerves required constant nourishment -- "[that his sudden arrival gave me quite a shock. I was sitting here, quite quietly, after having given the cook his orders, which you know always tires me out. My cook. Miss Evans, will cause my death one day. He positively will. I have begged and implored the Doctor -- by the Doctor Mrs. Masters meant her husband -- to let me have a heathen who does know how to cook. These Christians never do? And Mrs. Simpson was telling me she always had a heathen, and then her husband could enter him in his Report as becoming a Christian, or an "inquirer," for she always made a point of insisting he should come in to family prayers; and just before the time came for writing the Report, she has up her heathen cook, and gives him a talking-to."

"Mrs. Simpson has heathen cooks, has she?" asked Miss Evans in holy horror. "I shall never feel happy at her table again. He might put poison in the food!"

"Much more likely that our cooks poison us by their food!" retorted Mrs. Masters peevishly. "Not a scrap of mustard on this sandwich! Just look at it! But these are some of the trials of a missionary's life!"

"This Mr. Sweetapple, though, you were going to tell me about him," reminded Miss Evans, seeing Mrs. Masters was wandering from the interesting new arrival.

"Oh yes, Mr. Sweetapple! where had I got to? Well, I was lying on the sofa resting a little, when I heard a ring at the front-door bell. I don't know why, but there was something in the sound of that ring which gave me a dreadful start. My heart set off beating, the room seemed turning round -- "

"Yes, yes," Miss Evans interrupted, "came at an unusual time, didn't it? But was it Mr. Sweetapple?" For Miss Evans knew it was not safe, as regarded ever getting to the end of a story, to let Mrs. Masters digress on to the subject of health.

"Well," the invalid went on, "there followed, after the door had been opened by the boy, a most deadly silence. You could have heard a pin drop anywhere all over the house. This lasted for quite half-an-hour, and then I began to get so nervous about the Doctor I couldn't keep quiet any longer. I felt I must scream if I tried to stay where I was. So I went to the Doctor's study door, and listened. Not a sound. I didn't knock then, I felt sure some one had been trying to murder my husband, and strength seemed to come to me all of a sudden. I shut my eyes tight, and opened the door."

"Well?" There was a trifle of impatience in Miss Evans's voice.

"There was no one in the room!"

"What?" almost shrieked Miss Evans. "But didn't you hear some one come in?"

"Yes, I did. Well, yon may imagine what a fright I got into. I rang for the boy, and tried to find out who it was who had come. But you know I can't manage the dialect at all well, and so it only made me feel more ill trying to understand what he said. It's so seldom I am well enough to have my teacher now that I would give him up altogether if it were not that the Society pays for him, and they might make a fuss in England about my grant of money if they thought I was doing absolutely nothing out here. But oh! you can imagine what a state I was in when my poor dear husband came back, just before tiffin, tired, hot, and overdone. This young Mr. Sweetapple had actually taken him out -- he who never stirs before evening in any weather -- had made him come with him to Li Pao's -- our head pastor, you know -- and from there to the catechist's house, and from there to the chapel -- all walking, for he wouldn't take a chair, and Dr. Masters said he felt obliged to walk to keep him company!"

"But what an extraordinary thing for a new arrival to do!" cried Miss Evans. "Didn't he come only by yesterday's steamer? Why didn't he settle down quietly?"

"Exactly, exactly," assented Mrs. Masters. "My dear Miss Evans, I've only seen this Mr. Sweetapple once, at tiffin yesterday, but I could judge pretty well by him then what kind of a man he was. And I say -- " Here she tapped her forehead with her penholder, and nodded significantly at her companion.

"Cracked, my dear Miss Evans, perfectly cracked, I assure you. Not that you'd dream of it by his looks. He looks, indeed, as if butter wouldn't melt in his mouth, nor cheese choke him! But to hear him talk! Oh dear, oh dear, where would we missionaries be if we did as he means to do!"

"You must remember, Mrs. Masters, the proverb about new brooms!" Miss Evans put in ironically.

"The only thing I can hope is that the proverb may be true in this case!" sighed Mrs. Masters. "Fancy, when I asked him if he had taken a chair from the steamer. 'No,' he said, 'I cannot think it right to make a beast of burden of my fellow-man!" Then again, when I offered him my cook, at what inconvenience to myself you may judge: 'I don't mean to have a cook,' he said, 'I mean to live as the Chinese live.' I wonder how long he will keep that up!"

"And what did Dr. Masters say to all this?" asked Miss Evans.

"Why, the poor dear man was so tired I don't believe he even heard it! Then as for getting any news out of him, about the Shanghai people or about his voyage -- not a word. 'I don't know,' 'I didn't enquire,' and then turning from me to ask Dr. Masters some question about Mission work or Chinese, or something equally uninteresting. I do think it is the rudest thing in the world to turn away from you as though you weren't worth talking to!"

"Then he isn't staying with you, is he?" asked Miss Evans, who was steadily storing up her fund of information.

"Oh dear no! he's far too much of a new broom to stay in a comfortably furnished house! He began last night to try to pig it out in that empty house, Mr. Lawson's old one, in true Chinese style. Wouldn't agree to having anything bought for him beyond what he had seen in Li Pao's house. My husband tried to shew him he wouldn't be out of pocket in the least if he bought a European bed -- (we've got the Smiths' old furniture in the godown to sell for them) -- as the Mission always makes a grant of 200 dollars for furniture. 'I shan't take the money,' said he."

"Not take the money!" ejaculated Miss Evans. "Why not, pray?"

"Oh, don't ask me why about a maniac!" answered Mrs. Masters peevishly. "He's as restless, as bent on setting the whole world to rights, as upsetting, as any -- " Simile failing her, she strengthened her speech by an enormous piece of sandwich.

"At any rate," Miss Evans said thoughtfully, "he must be in earnest, and we shan't have a repetition of Mr. Lawson."

"Really, but for his ending, there was nothing objectionable about Mr. Lawson," faltered Mrs. Masters, the shadow of a pale yellow blush passing over her face.

"Ah! you think so, do you?"

Miss Evans laid down her pen, planted her elbows firmly on the table, and looked the nervous Mrs. Masters full in the face.

"You can talk of a man who has denied his Lord, turned his back on Mission work, despised his holy calling, and forsaken us, like Demas, as 'not objectionable'!"

The scorn in Miss Evans's voice was withering. Mrs. Masters shrank up at once.

"I don't mean that he didn't do wrong; though it wasn't in giving up missionary work, for any one can be a missionary in any station of life; but in giving up Christianity," apologised Mrs. Masters. "But what I meant was, he never did anything outrageous, and while he was in the Mission he was always very useful. Don't you think so?"

"Yes," Miss Evans was assenting, unwillingly, when footsteps running lightly round the corner of the house were heard, and a matronly-looking lady, smart in a pink cotton blouse and black skirt, with rosy cheeks, closely cropped hair that insisted on curling into a most worldly fringe, upturned nose, and small twinkling black eyes, dashed in through the window.

"I've seen him! I've seen him!" she cried, and subsided into an arm-chair and a fit of giggling.

"Seen whom?" Miss Evans asked sternly, frowning prodigiously on the new arrival. Mrs. Masters, in her excitement to know the meaning of this mysterious speech, quite forgot to get nervous.

"Seen whom? Mr. Sweetapple, of course!"

"Oh!"

This "oh" of disappointment came from Mrs. Masters alone.

"How did you see him, Mrs. Simpson?"

For the new arrival was none other than the missionary doctor's wife, an American whose frivolity of disposition and malicious tongue were common ground on which Mrs. Masters and Miss Evans could at the worst of times agree.

"I was just coming into your compound, and passing near his house," Mrs. Simpson said, "when I heard voices from the house. If I hadn't been in China, where I'm positive no ghost of any sense would come, I would have declared it was a spook! Well, then I remembered my husband had told me the new man had arrived. And so I crept up close to the window, and peeped in."

"Humph!" was Miss Evans's comment.

"If I hadn't looked, how could I have told you?" retorted Mrs. Simpson. "There they were, actually, going straight for. . ." Here she burst into another peal of laughter, from intervals in which came utterly unintelligible sounds.

"What? What? Who was there?"

"He had got an old Chinaman in there, and was doing his ka, kah, ga! as hard as he could! The very first day! Fancy that! I stood and listened there for a few minutes, and I heard those two going on: ing, gong, ah, koh! and all that fearful dialect-stuff, till I felt tears running down my checks with laughter. I never in all my life realised before how ridiculous these Yung-kiang sounds are!"

"You seem to forget," remarked Miss Evans sarcastically, "that you have been through exactly the same process yourself!"

"Indeed I didn't!" retorted the new comer. "I began at the beginning of Genesis in the Romanised, and read straight on through the Bible with my teacher. Your way, and Mr. Sweetapple's would never have got me even up to Uo-pah-lah-hen", or Lo-teh', much less to Pharaoh and Potiphar! Still, I daresay Mr. Sweetapple will soon be able -- "

"Can he imitate the sounds already?" asked Miss Evans, with the anxiety of a past master in the dialect.

"Not a scrap, my dear, so you needn't be afraid he'll be up to you in the next twelvemonth!"

There was open war between these two ladies, dating from the days before Mrs. Simpson's marriage, when as a young missionary she had been placed under Miss Evans's supervision and in her house.

"From all Mrs. Masters has been telling me," went on Miss Evans, "far from laughing at Mr. Sweetapple, we ought to be thankful to have such an earnest man at last. For myself, I look upon his arrival as a direct answer to prayer."

"Prayer for what?" asked Mrs. Simpson, winking in an irresistible manner at Mrs. Masters, much to that lady's confusion. "Did you think then that the Almighty required you to pray for another missionary? Don't you think God is capable of looking after Mission affairs without your interference?"

Miss Evans did not deign to notice, far less to answer, Mrs. Simpson's profanity -- for it was nothing less in her eyes. She revenged herself simply by setting Mrs. Masters' nerves on edge by scratching her pen viciously along her envelopes. And Mrs. Simpson, whose spitefulness was only, so to speak, skin-deep quickly changed the conversation.

"Do you know," she began, bending forward mysteriously in the direction of Mrs. Masters, "that Mr. Lawson is actually intimate friends now with the Commissioner?"

"No! You don't mean it!"

"Yes, I do. Isn't it disgraceful? And no one seems to think anything of the way in which the Commissioner lives! No one dreams of even remonstrating with him! You must excuse my speaking of these things before you. Miss Evans."

"Oh certainly," rejoined the spinster.

"Married people of course hear of everything," Mrs. Simpson went on. "And now that it's done and finished I don't mind telling you two, in strictest confidence, what I have done in this matter."

Mrs. Masters and Miss Evans stared at Mrs. Simpson.

"Yes, you may well wonder and look at me like that. I'm not afraid of any one, I can assure you! Well, last spring it was Dr. Simpson told me what sort of a household the Commissioner kept up, and he a married man, with a charming wife and grow-ing-up family at home! It seemed to me so wicked, so provoking the judgment of heaven, that I couldn't get it out of ray mind. I thought of it by day and I dreamed of it by night."

"It's a pity your husband ever told you if it haunted you like that," sneered Miss Evans.

"No, I don't think it was a pity!" retorted Mrs. Simpson. "For I've done the next best thing I could do, next to going and confronting the Commissioner, and charging him with his sinfulness. I've written home to his wife, and told her exactly how matters stood out here! I didn't need to pray over that step, Miss Evans, it was a duty straight in front of me, and I did it!"

Mrs. Masters gasped.

"But, but," she faltered, "if she, the Commissioner's wife, really loves her husband, you will have made endless mischief and sorrow in that family."

"The Gospel brings not peace, but a sword, often," Mrs. Simpson remarked calmly. "In this case there isn't even the sword. She isn't the woman to resent, as I should do, her husband's infidelity, I dare say she even mates excuses for him in her mind, and hates me for having told her the truth."

"I admire you, Mrs. Simpson, but I could not imitate you." And with the sigh of an inferior in intellect, Mrs. Masters finished her sandwiches.

CHAPTER III.

Antony Sweetapple sat in his verandah, looking out on the river flowing placidly below him, and frowning heavily.

Here he had been in Yungkiang a whole week, and what a week of revelation had it been! The jumble the writer of the Apocalypse saw on Patmos was as smooth as a wound ball of silk in comparison with the young missionary's mind.

And yet he did not doubt of himself, nor of his call to the "front rank in the army of Christ" for one second. Those passing qualms of conscience he had felt in the Bay of Biscay had gone for ever in the smoother waters of the Canal. Soft as the fabled "spicy breezes o'er Ceylon's isle," the literature with which the Missionary Society had supplied him in London had wafted sweet peace to his mind in the fervent heat of the Red Sea. Shanghai, that stronghold of the Evil One, had failed even to attract, far less to overawe him. And here he was, in his own house in the missionary settlement of Yunkiang literally sitting down under the walls of the great heathen city, as of old the Israelites before Jericho, -- and his mind was sore vexed and disquieted within him.

Why?

No, it was not the difficulty he was so manfully facing, that of this extraordinary, un-get-at-able language, which has no alphabet, no grammar, rhyme perchance, but no reason, that was weighing him down. The language, written or spoken, Antony was convinced was simply a question of time, and time was of no importance to a man who had made up his mind to spend every remaining hour of his life in the Celestial Empire. He was making progress already with that ill-sounding colloquial, and with the impudence of profoundest ignorance was further plunging headlong into the sacred pages of the Tzu Erh Chi. If all his life had opened out before him as simply as the Chinese language seemed to do, the soul of Antony Sweetapple could only have attuned itself to a Te Deum.

But is it not an oft-repeated truism that the greatest objection to Christianity lies, not in its doctrines, but in the professors of the same?

Wrong, infinitely wrong, Antony felt himself to be, as he looked from his own well-preserved, well-built, and well-painted house towards those of his fellow-workers. Were these houses -- undoubtedly the best built and best kept up in the place, in the best of situations too -- were these houses what he had been led to expect from those Missionary Reports? When he had heard ministers at home pleading for contributions towards heathen Missions, had those ministers, and had those congregations ever dreamed that their hard-earned money was to be spent, not in feeding the hungry, not in clothing the naked, but in shutters for a missionary's verandah, in varnished wood for a missionary's floor?

Antony's eyes fell to the ground in shame as he looked round at his own sitting-room, furnished in a style he certainly had never seen in England.

For he had taken the Mission's two hundred dollars after all, and had bought, with that sum, and certainly as a very great bargain, the Smiths' furniture in the godown. It had cost the Rev. Ebenezer Smith ever so much more, as Dr. Masters with truth assured him. Where, except as between two missionaries, could you have got for that sum, besides the necessary cooking-utensils and dining-room furniture, a wardrobe with a magnificent full-length plate-glass panel, a marble-topped washstand, a handsomely carved and inlaid writing-table, and other refinements?

"For you can't possibly refuse the grant," Dr. Masters had told him. "You will certainly be taken for a Roman Catholic missionary if you don't make your house as all of us Protestant missionaries invariably do."

And as to the mind of Antony Sweetapple the being mistaken for a Roman Catholic was as dreadful and damning as the being taken for a Buddhist, he had given way, and accepted the furniture.

This same unanswerable objection, that it was what Roman Catholic missionaries did, stood again in his way, an angel with a drawn sword, in the matter of living on Chinese chow-chow, and dispensing with foreign-notioned boys, cooks and coolies.

"We live in a deadly, insidious climate," Dr. Masters had said to him, on the second morning after Antony's arrival, utterly oblivious of the fact that he had been sent out to die at the age of twenty-four, and that the event had not come off for fifty years, "and it is only the Roman Catholics, who think deliberate suicide makes them saints, who try to live like the natives. Putting aside the question of loss of dignity in the eyes of the natives, living a Chinese life quite cuts you off from the possibility of doing good to your fellow-countrymen. And yet what need they have of it!" Dr. Masters turned over with a sigh the voluminous sheets of a grand paper he was preparing for the Missionary Conference in the next year. He longed to read Antony his best passages, and mark the impression they would make on him. But the neophyte's thoughts were far outside the doctor's study, to which he had come for his Mission orders on that morning.

"Dr. Masters," he said, in an earnest troubled voice, "What work is there for me to do now?"

"What work?" Dr. Masters answered, replacing his cherished manuscript, apparently so unappreciated, "Learn the dialect; isn't that enough? You are of no use till you can make yourself understood by the natives."

"But what can I do while I am learning the language?"

"Do? why, there's nothing to do -- but enjoy yourself, see the place, call on our ladies, -- or, study any subject you happen to have a hobby for. We have never had a botanist, or a geologist, in our Mission here. There are splendid fields for those subjects, if you have any taste for them."

Antony looked at Dr. Masters in utter astonishment. "But I came to be a missionary," he said at last.

"Bless me, can't you combine the two?" cried Dr. Masters impatiently. "If you're a missionary, does that mean that you cease to be a man, and become a mere machine for grinding out the old truths? Our catechists can do that part much better than we can I We are the brains, eyes, ears, of the work, and very necessary too. But that doesn't exclude, nor is it meant to exclude, an enjoyment of the good and innocent things the Almighty has put around us!"

"I think it does," Antony answered slowly.

Dr. Masters shut up his drawer with a snap, and turned to look at his companion.

The young man's eyes were fixed, in an absent, half-conscious way, on a tiny fishing-boat that was gently dropping down the stream. The weird chant of the fishermen hauling up an anchor a little farther off came drowsily in through the open window. There was perfect silence, a sleepy lotus-eating feeling within the house, for Mrs. Masters was having her morning nap (she usually took one hour's sleep in the morning, and another siesta in the afternoon).

"Mr. Sweetapple," the older man said at last, breaking the spell that had seemed to hold them both, "sit.down, and I will tell you the story of a missionary who started with just your views."

Antony sat down, and turned on Dr. Masters a face in which he meant to shew respectful rebellion. The young man was feeling so perfectly sure that his conception of it was the right missionary spirit, -- that of absolute and utter life-devotion to one end, the saving of souls, -- that if perchance there had been another man like-minded, and he had come to grief, it must have been because he was not really like-minded, but had rather fallen among spiritual thieves. For although by nature absolutely monkish, Antony Sweetapple's lot had always been cast amongst iconoclasts, despisers of spiritual authority, discoverers of Antichrist, howlers against heresy, intolerantly bigoted Dissenters. And the result of his training had been to make him not only kick against all authority, but be absolutely sure he was right, and equally positive that any one who differed from him was wrong.

"Our last recruit," Dr. Masters said, "was a most charming, clever, intellectual young man. His name was Walter Lawson."

"Yes, I have heard of him."

Antony's voice was meant to be indifferent. But Dr. Masters was an old man, and had lost his sympathy with the young, and so rambled on regardless of whether he was interesting his hearer or not.

"Nothing but souls would satisfy him," he sighed. "I, and my then wife, now a saint in glory, tried hard to draw him out. He loved the Chinese to such an extent, had worked himself up into such fever-heat on their, language and literature -- he was a student by nature, and took much more to the written language than the colloquial -- that I believe he almost dreamt in Chinese at last. Chinese is a very fascinating language, I must confess it. It used to tempt me too in old days. I once even planned a Dictionary!"

Dr. Masters' voice rose to a triumphant height, while at the same time he shook his head with the self-satisfied disapproval of a reformed rake alluding to his green and salad days.

"But to know Chinese well can't hurt, if one uses one's knowledge only for the glory of God!"

"My dear boy," sighed Dr. Masters, "it is impossible to combine God's glory with a knowledge of the Classics. Lawson's case will convince you. He grew to think more of the wisdom of this world than of the foolishness of preaching. He grew to long for cultured society, instead of for Galilean fishermen. He grew to long for the fruits of the Tree of Knowledge, rather than for those of the Tree of Life. He grew to become friends with the literati. He wished -- vain delusion! -- to influence the upper classes. And when the Fu-t'ai (the Governor you know), offered him the post of tutor to his own sons, he accepted it -- with my approval, for it seemed to me that God was at last opening a way into the yamens. And so young Lawson was temporarily detached from the Mission, and got a splendid salary, and a beautiful house, and the finest chance man has ever had to preach the everlasting Gospel."

Antony was listening now, listening intently.

"And then, and then -- "

The poor old man joined his hands together, and looked piteously at Antony.

"There are some experiences in one's life that are very bitter," he said. "We had a Consul here in those days, a great sinologue, but also a great man of sin. Not of gross sin, that would never have attracted Lawson. But this man had an intellect which he received, I verily believe, straight from the Evil One. His blasphemies were something, I have been told, too awful. Into his power, for he was a great friend of the Fu-t'ai's, and a splendid Chinese scholar, young Lawson fell. And now he, who was a missionary, is an atheist, an agnostic, and in this very city, right at our very feet, and through his knowledge of their language too, seeks to turn away the Chinese from Christianity!"

"Impossible!" Antony cried scornfully. "Only the shallow and ignorant are atheists! I've had plenty of experience of them myself in London, and they have invariably come off second best."

"What I have told you just now is, however, true," Dr. Masters said, in a slightly offended tone. "And I don't advise you to try a fall with young Lawson. He has silenced better men than you are likely ever to be."

And, settling himself into a writing attitude. Dr. Masters intimated that the interview was at an end.

Since that conversation four days had passed. Sunday was over. Not the Sunday he had expected, of feverish work, of street-preaching, of gathering of the poor together, of peace and holy joy after the labour was ended. Antony saw the peasant stolidly going forth to his usual work. The shrill-voiced women did not array their offspring in any festive attire. The servants did their ordinary amount of smearing over his floors, and their feather-brushes tapped his pictures with the same amount of zeal as usual. Dr. Masters certainly held a morning and an evening service in his chapel, but his congregation, a very small one, did not seem to be paying more attention to what he said than to what each other said. Two amahs, sitting just under his nose, never ceased whispering in an audible key the whole time. Two or three coolies absolutely drowned the preacher more than once with their laughter at a squabble between some urchins, with filthy faces, who occupied the seats of honour. Miss Evans' schoolgirls complacently fanned themselves, yawned, and looked about them, regardless of that lady's frowns. The singing was execrable, harsh, flat, and unmusical to the point of desperation. And all the time Dr. Masters droned on, repeating what seemed to Antony precisely the same sounds over and over again, and certainly not exciting a gleam of interest in his hearers. Mrs. Masters was not there. She was far too nervous to endure the smell of the Chinese. Nor was Mrs. Simpson, whose maternal duties kept her at home every Sunday morning, and often on Sunday evening also.

Pictures of the impressions of the past week kept floating into Antony's mental vision on that Monday afternoon. The hot chapel, the cool study, the old man's grief over the erring, straying missionary, the strange, more-than-hinted-at idea that there was something dangerous in this world, in this great country, something capable of being more attractive than missionary life to a young missionary. Did then Satan lurk even within the pages of the Tzu Erh Chi? All these thoughts were sorely perplexing and paining Antony's spirit. And yet there could be no danger to the soul in learning Chinese, to use in God's service. Had it not been rather the missionaries themselves that had made this Lawson despair of success in his labours? Was it not only because he did not labour with them now that they judged he was against Christ?

Or, if he was indeed against Christ, had they ever tried to bring him back to the fold?

They! -- who were "they"?

Antony Sweetapple ran over his fellow-workers contemptuously in Ms mind's eye. Dr. Masters -- a feeble, good-intentioned, incorrigibly unmethodical cumberer of the ground. Mrs. Masters -- a hysterical, self-indulgent, useless appendage to her husband. Dr. Simpson -- a thorough fraud, who threw dust in the eyes of his fellow-workers by a great deal of the tinkling brass of which St. Paul once wrote. Mrs. Simpson -- he could scarcely judge of her as yet. Miss Evans -- a soured old maid who had taken to mission work as an opiate to console her for the cursedness of a single life.

Merciless indeed was Antony's judgment of his fellow-workers, and both wrong and un-Christian was he. But his awakening had; not been a gentle one, nor had his previous experience lain amongst the best of men. He had been led to expect to find men and women living an heroic, a martyr's life. Instead of this he had found ordinary men and ordinary women leading an ordinary life. As compared with Baptist ministers at home, Dr. Masters had an exceedingly easy billet. As compared with London City medical missionaries, Dr. Euripides Simpson was a man on a perpetual holiday. Was it a hot day? He stayed away from dispensary, and let his Chinese assistants do the work for him. Was he indisposed in the least? He gave himself a lengthy leave of absence. It had not taken a week for Antony Sweetapple to find out that the care of their own bodies was more important to the missionaries than the conversion of the heathen.

And now Antony sat and crumpled up in his hand a little scented note he had received, just as he had made up his mind that his duty was to go and call on Mr. Lawson, and tell him, tell him -- 

What indeed? Ah, but this query was a temptation of the Evil One's. The word would come to him as he needed it. But he must first answer this note.

He opened the pretty pink scolloped sheet once more, and read:

Looking unto Jesus.

October 16th. Dear Mr. Sweetapple,

Will you give us the pleasure of your company at Hungry Tea on the 23rd of this month?

Yours truly,

Fanny Simpson.

N.B. -- No evening dress.

Ought Antony to have hesitated as to his answer? And nevertheless he did hesitate, and vowed to the Lord and to a lonely life as he was, he felt sad that he was obliged to write what he did.

Still, his hand was now on the plough, and he was about to draw his first furrow. And there could be no turning back, no, not even turning aside.

Dear Mrs. Simpson,

I thank you. But I think I can do the Lord's work better elsewhere.

Yours in the Gospel,

Antony Sweetapple.

But when he heard that Mr. Lawson was "out," ready though he felt himself for the fray, that part of his heart where Satan still wrestled for a foothold gave a throb of joy.

For, to tell the truth, Antony Sweetapple felt afraid of discussing subjects on which he knew himself to be profoundly ignorant.

CHAPTER IV.

The ladies of the Baptist Mission were deeply offended at Antony's refusal of Mrs. Simpson's invitation, and they daily grew more offended.

He who should have been their young squire, ready to accompany them on all up-country expeditions, carry their shawls, protect them from dogs and buffaloes, was of no earthly use whatever.

All the morning Antony spent over his books. The language, now that he was beginning to examine it a little closer, was becoming more and more puzzling every day. Radicals, Romanised, Colloquial -- was there ever such a medley in any man's head? And to help him unravel, and arrange, and put in working order, for use, all this mass of material, he had an ignorant, half-educated convert, too old and incapable to manage a pack of heathen schoolboys, and who had only become an "inquirer" to obtain the cash he needed for keeping body and soul together!

Truly Antony was experiencing the force of the Apostle's words anent the Divine choice of the weak and feeble things of this world. The personnel of the Mission was almost enough to make a man despair of his heavenly calling!

In the secret of his own room, Antony felt sorely depressed. But then, when he went out of doors, courage came back to him.

These people, so smiling, happy-looking, and good-natured, were all immortal souls, literally galloping towards the bottomless pit. They were perfectly unaware of their spiritual danger, and perfectly- unconcerned as to the awful fate awaiting them. How Antony longed to seize that jovial coolie by the shoulder, and warn him of God's wrath to come! But alas, even when he tried some of the little sentences he had with such patience repeated after his teacher day by day, he could see he was not understood. And when he said the words over again, quite right this time, he was sure, what answer was he bound to get? -- "I don't understand foreign languages!"

And all this time the precious days were slipping by, and all things seemed to continue among the heathen as they had done from the golden age of Yao and Shun.

Ay, and would so continue, Walter Lawson told him. For the renegade had returned his call, and Antony had returned that call, and indeed was beginning to find acquaintanceship with such an enthusiastic student of Chinese a great help in his struggle with the elements of the language. 

There was certainly no harm, he told himself, in making use of even an enemy in the cause of God. The Israelites of old had not scrupled to use for the Tabernacle the precious things of which they had robbed the Egyptians. And, who knew? might not Antony be the chosen instrument to guide young Lawson's steps back into the way of peace?

Further, with a tact Sweetapple himself was not possessed of, Walter Lawson avoided at first all subjects on which they were likely to disagree. On tones, and radicals he would discourse freely, but he became silent and abstracted when the Delegates' Version appeared on the scene. Which silence Antony put down to weakness, and rashly ventured on the fight.

"Do you not consider the Delegates' Version marks a new era in Chinese literature?"

No, Walter Lawson had no opinion on the matter at all. But when, baffled in this direction, Antony Sweetapple fell to abusing the Classics, and comparing -- most threadbare of controversies -- the Golden Rules of Confucius and Christ, the wiser man's patience gave away.

"The Classics immoral, Confucius inferior to Christ? Only the profoundest ignorance, could excuse such statements. Only profoundest ignorance, too, could ever excuse any man coming out to teach the Chinese.

"What could a missionary teach them? Morality? Compare the morality of the Classics with the obscenity of some of the Old Testament stories! Was the Bible a fit book to put into the hands of such a moral nation as the Chinese? Hell, and punishment after death? The Chinese had all that in their own low-class literature, and their punishments were not to be shirked by a deathbed repentance."

"But" -- Antony put in feebly.

"But what?" retorted Lawson. "Do you mean that repentance at the last moment of life is creditable to a just God? Do you mean that those who repent are predestined to repent? How can you tell then that I was not predestined too to lose my faith, and that I am not now fulfilling your God's purpose by my infidelity? And if so, who is responsible for my lack of faith? Surely I am not!"

"Every man is responsible for himself," answered Antony gravely. "Predestination is only God's aspect of the world. It is because we do not know who are predestined to salvation that we deem it our duty and our privilege to evangelise the heathen."

"Whom perchance God never intended to evangelise. Or, if he did, why did he not take care that the Gospel should have been presented lo the Chinese in a form they could understand, and not in that hideous bungle, the Romanised version?"

"You cannot understand these mysteries," Antony answered, "because you are not spiritually minded. If you had been, you would never have chosen secular work, and neglected the care of souls. You allowed your mind to lie idle and empty, and lo! the seven devils of which Holy Scripture speaks entered into you. But if you had given your whole time and your whole strength and thoughts to your Mission work, Satan could never have found an entrance."

Lawson looked at him pityingly.

"I have no wish to disenchant you," he said slowly, "and besides that I doubt whether I could ever succeed in shewing you how I was led to take the final step. I don't even see why 'I should want to try and make you understand me, except that I think you are in earnest, which so few of our men generally are. Only, if you don't want to hear me say unpleasant things, don't speak against books you haven't yet read!"

And nodding a friendly good-bye, Walter Lawson left Antony to his own reflections.

CHAPTER V.

In the middle of January came a break.

Quite providentially, as Mrs. Simpson remarked, the Baptist Mission held a conference in Shanghai at the very time she and Mrs. Masters required sundry new garments. And so Dr. Masters and Dr. Simpson went up with their wives for three weeks, leaving the Mission in the charge of Antony Sweetapple and Miss Evans.

How the two good ladies enjoyed their stay in Shanghai! How refreshing to the two missionaries was free intercourse with their fellow-workers! How nice Shanghai food tasted I How much the stores had improved! They were all of them quite sorry to come back to Yungkiang.

But Dr. Masters soon found he had far more reason to be sorry he had ever gone.

"Here's a nice kettle of fish!" he exclaimed in a tone of the utmost distress, bursting unceremoniously into the room where Mrs. Simpson and Mrs. Masters were trying to square up their mixed accounts.

"What's the matter? Don't frighten her!" cried Mrs. Simpson, seizing a salts'-bottle in haste. For she, as well as her husband, had a holy dread of Mrs. Masters' nerves.

"Oh, it's nothing to do with you, my dear," Dr. Masters answered, patting his wife hastily on the back, as is deemed advisable to do to a child who is choking from some cause unknown, "it's to do with that dreadful, terrible, young -- I can't help it, there's no other name for him -- fool, Antony Sweetapple!"

Now Mrs. Simpson felt no horror at hearing this un-Scriptural name applied to Antony, whom she disliked exceedingly, and with very good cause. For, was he not a faith-healer, and would he not, as soon as he knew the dialect, interfere exceedingly with her husband in his profession? And that refusal to her first and last invitation, was that an offence to be forgotten in a hurry?

"My dear," -- Mrs. Masters expostulated mildly.

"Listen, and tell me what you think of him, then!"

"I had just got into my own study after breakfast, not even unlocked my table-drawers, when in he comes. Comes to report himself, never dreaming any one can want a little quiet after being knocked about on a steamer. But such a report I Such mischief done! It will take me months to put it all straight! The first thing that happened was, one of the pastors asked leave for a week. My young gentleman must needs find out what for. I never ask questions; no wise man ever does. What does he find out? The leave of absence was to bury some old grandmother with heathen rites! If the pastor wouldn't do this, of course he would lose his share of the property, and, he didn't care for that, you may be sure!"

"But you yourself would not have,agreed to that, Tom," Mrs. Masters put in.

"Of course I wouldn't, if I had known it. But I should have taken good care not to know it I This particular man is our very best pastor; we can't afford to lose him! And Sweetapple has gone and excommunicated him!"

Mrs. Simpson gave a long whistle that would have done credit to any schoolboy.

"Then down came one of the catechists, who to spite an old enemy, had insisted on preaching in that enemy's house. The fellow wouldn't stand that, of course, and went and fetched a lot of his neighbours, who beat the catechist pretty well. He's a ruffian, that catechist, I've had my eye on him a long time, but his father is the owner of the land these houses stand on, so I can't quarrel with him. But he knows me too well to come to me in his quarrels. What does Sweetapple do? Everything but what he ought to do! Sends in a most impudent letter to the Tao-t'ai, not through the Consul, but just allows this fellow to write anything he likes, and signs his name at the end! He shewed me, just now, a copy of the letter, and my teacher was simply horrified at it!"

Dr. Masters paused for breath, and for sympathy. "What has the Tao-t'ai done?" Mrs. Simpson asked absently. She had just discovered, quite by accident, the wrong entry that had been puzzling her and Mrs. Masters for half-an-hour. "Nothing, and very good indeed of him." Dr. Masters got up, and relieved his mind by piling coal on the fire in the noisiest manner possible, adding -- 

"Then he has, I am afraid, given young Lawson such a serious relapse that his life is despaired of."

"Mr. Lawson! I never knew he was ill at all!" It was Mrs. Simpson who spoke, but Mrs. Masters added, "What is the matter with him?"

"He is dying now, I am afraid. They say, galloping consumption."

"Poor boy!"

The exclamation came from Mrs. Masters. "And Sweetapple thought, hearing how ill he was, that it was his duty to go and speak to him on religion. His doctor it was who came in just now and told me what he had done.

Lawson was to be kept perfectly quiet. Sweetapple forced his way in, and the doctor found Lawson an hour afterwards in a dead faint. The excitement had been too much for him."

"The man is a maniac, and a dangerous one!" Mrs. Simpson cried. "You must indeed get rid of him. Dr. Masters. We are none of us safe!"

"Safe! no indeed we are not," Dr. Masters repeated. "Sweetapple was gone, or I should have pitched into him well, you may be sure. He's one of the 'in-season and out-of-season' men, who think it their duty to force the Gospel upon people! Young Lawson has done us harm enough, that we all know, but when a man is dying, surely he is out of our hands!"

Mrs. Masters looked admiringly from her husband to Mrs. Simpson, who nodded approval in a dubious fashion. The workings of Providence were often too slow for her, and in her opinion a little human reminder was frequently needed to arouse the Almighty to what she considered to be his duty.

"And then, he has quarrelled with Miss Evans!" Quite unconsciously, Dr. Masters had kept the tit-bit of his news to the end.

"Quarrelled with Miss Evans? Serves her right!" There was a joyful sound in Mrs. Simpson's voice, the triumph-cry of one who at last sees the day of vengeance arrive.

"Yes, quarrelled, and put me in a most awkward position."

Dr. Masters flung himself into an arm-chair, and absently took a sandwich from the plate which, as a matter of course, stood at his wife's elbow.

"He took it into his head that, as I left him in charge, he ought to visit the girls' school. He did so quite unexpectedly one morning. And there he found Miss Evans punishing her girls in a way which, I must confess, would have angered me if I had seen it."

"What way?" Mrs. Simpson asked, biting her lips and looking over at Mrs. Masters with a meaning smile.

"One little girl she was bambooing, and another poor little mite of six was standing in a corner, the tears running down her cheeks, and her little blistered hands tied behind her back, so that she could not wipe away the tears, nor keep herself from falling. My dear! my dear! dont take it so to heart! It shan't be done again, I promise you!"

For Mrs. Masters was beginning to give unmistakable signs of hysterics or of hiccough.

"I have often seen her do that," Mrs. Simpson observed calmly, "and I don't believe the children mind it in the least The Chinese haven't got the same feelings as we have; and if they have, the mothers are too anxious to get the cash we give the children for coming to school to keep them away."

"That's precisely what Miss Evans told him, and what they had their final quarrel about. He declared it was simple bribery to pay the children for coming to school. She told him all the Missions did the same, and if they didn't the schools would be empty."

"And how did he get out of it?"

"Told me he is going to draw up and send home a Report of how he considers the Mission money is squandered out here!"

"Luckily they won't take any notice of his Report," laughed Mrs. Simpson. "You can write at the same time, Dr. Masters. But what a fury Miss Evans must be in! We had all made up our minds she was to marry him; she was the only lady he ever took any notice of."

"That's finished now!" sighed Dr. Masters. "I only wish we could have got him to marry. A wife might have been the saving of him, bodily and mentally. I shouldn't feel justified in leaving him in charge for three months next summer when we go to the hills, and yet I'm sure we shan't be able to persuade him. to go there with us. If only he were married!"

"Can't you marry him?" Mrs. Simpson asked. "Couldn't you shew him those photographs they had in Shanghai, of eligibles in England, and persuade him to choose one? You could just get her out in time for the hills."

"I'm afraid it is of no use," Dr. Masters answered, getting up and going towards the door. "But it's a good suggestion, and as I can't think of any better way of breaking him in, I'll try it. I'll write up for the photographs at once."

CHAPTER VI.

"Yes, it is an undoubtedly established fact, that unmarried missionaries can never hope to get hold of the Chinese. The natives despise bachelors; such a thing is unknown amongst themselves. Who ever heard of a unmarried Chinaman? It's against the very religion of the people. A man who has not a son and heir of his body, buys one or adopts one. If you ever want to make a success of Mission work, Sweetapple, to gain any influence whatever, you must marry!"

Dr. Masters spoke with authority. Who could be a better judge than he was? How much of his success did he not owe to those five saints of his in glory? He had never given the natives more than a very few months to point the finger of scornful pity at his widowed household.

"The Roman Catholics are not married," Antony began slowly, but then stopped.

"The Roman Catholics! No, they are not; nor are the Buddhist priests, either. Why don't you quote them at once?"

"Is that so?" Antony asked. For although he had been nearly six months in China, he knew very very little of the people he had come to convert. What time had he to find out their manners and customs, when the whole of his mornings went over the Romanised New Testament, and his evenings over the Radicals?

"Yes, it is," Dr. Masters answered sharply. "In the eyes of every respectable Chinaman you are a failure in life, because you have never taken the trouble to make a family for yourself. I have no doubt they laugh at you as half-witted when you try to teach them. They think they do their duty to God much better than you do!"

Antony's ears tingled. The old Adam in him cried out that he, the Westerner, was infinitely superior to the degraded Oriental. And yet the Oriental despised, criticised him. Ridiculous idea! Besides -- 

"If I wanted to marry, I couldn't," he said defiantly. "There is no lady here in our Mission to marry, except Miss Evans. And you wouldn't recommend her after our late experience?"

"No, no, not Miss Evans," Dr. Masters interrupted. "She is an excellent lady, but rather too old for you. How old are you, Sweetapple?"

"Twenty-four."

"And she owns up to forty. No, but I can easily get you a wife. You see, a missionary can always afford to marry, whereas many other young men cannot. It is one of our poor privileges. You have only to choose. Look here!"

Dr. Masters took a thick packet from off his writing-table.

"These are ladies in England, who are all quite willing to come and devote themselves to missionary life as wives to our workers here."

And Dr. Masters spread out, before Antony's astonished eyes, face after face, photograph after photograph. There they lay on the table: whole-length, half-length, profile, full-face, reading, looking straight before them, with hands clasped, stern, or smiling, a marvellous and motley crowd. All young too, none absolutely ill-looking, and all well-dressed, some even with necklaces, rings, or bracelets.

And Antony, looking at them all, beheld so many Mrs. Simpsons, or Mrs. Masters, or those fashionably-dressed young ladies who adorned some of the rival Missions in the place. Pretty? yes, some of them undoubtedly were. But none half as pretty as that little Sunday-School teacher down in his uncle's congregation; and yet even the thought of her had not been able to turn back his feet from following after Christ.

But Dr. Masters, looking at the young man's troubled face, fancied he detected signs of wavering.

"You shall take the photographs home with you, and think over the matter by yourself," he said kindly. "A companion for life is not to be chosen in a minute."

"Thank you," said Antony hypocritically. For in reality he knew he had already decided against all these fair women, and that he would not even take the trouble to untie the bundle Dr. Masters was fastening together for him. "Good morning!"

He put the parcel carelessly down on his sitting-room table, and went out into the verandah to think.

To marry one of these women, what did that mean to him?

It meant -- a comfortable, easy life of self-indulgence, of drawing pay and neglecting the Lord's vineyard, just as his neighbours did.

It meant -- a wife who would insist on three months' holiday at the hills every summer, and a year in England whenever leave was due.

It meant -- money and time and energy put into earthly things; it meant -- admitting another owner into the heart he had entirely devoted to glorious Mission work.

Was not Dr. Masters playing the part of that misleading old prophet who lured the man of God to his doom? Had not Antony received the call for himself, and how dared he now take another's message?

Was it not possible that even from Roman Catholics and Buddhists there were truths to be gleaned? Had God indeed left them altogether without witness? Might not their celibacy be the mark of the Divine in their calling?

No, Antony recognised the voice of the devil in this specious arguing. He knew and acknowledged to himself that his own human pride and his dislike to women in general were the real influences working upon him. It was not to-day the first time that he had told himself he was not succeeding in his missionary life, and that he never could succeed till he had made himself more of a Chinaman. But not in this way, oh, not in this way!

Food, clothes -- all these Antony was willing to change for the Gospel's sake. Country, friends -- he counted them as dross. But a wife, and a European wife!

Sounds of laughter and of weeping came floating up from the river. The Simpson children, gorgeous in their new Shanghai frocks, were going down in a sampan to visit some friends on the Settlement side. Dr. Simpson sat clutching one squalling infant. Antony beheld Mrs. Simpson in the act of administering a sound box on the ear to another. The Simpson children were universally acknowledged to be "horrid little things;" but so were indeed all the other foreign children in Yungkiang.

Still, and in spite of this family scene, Antony went back into his sitting-room, and deliberately opened the photographs.

He looked carefully and critically at four or five of them, and then leaned thoughtfully back in his chair.

Then, through the window had he left opened, borne in by the biting wintry wind, came the voices of Miss Evans's school girls singing their parting hymn before breaking up school.

Oh! how flat they sang! Luckily Antony was no trained musician, and scarcely knew why those notes so jarred on him.

Jarred him, back to answering this great question, to looking this great difficulty full in the face, this difficulty which that hymn was even now solving, by suggesting to him the answer he, unwilling though he was, saw to be inevitable.

In another week all the missionaries of Yungkiang -- Churchmen and Dissenters -- were electrified by the news that spread abroad.

Antony Sweetapple had engaged himself, in strict accordance with Chinese custom, by means of a go-between, but without the nativity-papers, to a Chinese girl, one of Miss Evans's elder pupils.

He did not deem it necessary, perhaps he did not deem it advisable, to inform Dr. Masters of what he had done until he judged it too late to go back. And when he did announce it, which he took care to do before the whole Mission, assembled for their weekly prayer-meeting, it was in an aggressively self-satisfied tone, which to the ladies' minds was clearly intended to signify that remonstrance was useless.

He was, indeed, a trifle disappointed that none of them did remonstrate with him. It is so much more satisfactory to immolate yourself when friends are trying with all their might to hold you back from the noble deed. The absolute silence that followed Antony's announcement was distinctly chilling to his ardour. Still, in secret they would doubtless criticise him, lament over him. While he -- he would hold the golden key that should unlock the native's heart, and which closed for ever all hope of connection with his far-distant country. His wife should penetrate into houses and amongst women no foreigner could ever dream of reaching. She would never want three months at the hills, nor a year in England, nor money for dress, nor European furniture. All he had now to do was to pay his teacher, for transmission to her parents, a certain sum of money. The girl herself he scarcely knew by sight. An un-English mode of marriage was this?' So much the better; he wished" to be un-English.

And so, after the banns of marriage had been displayed for the appointed period at the British Consulate, Antony Sweetapple married and took home his wife, who rode in the orthodox native red chair, was arrayed in the orthodox hired wedding garments, and who could not speak one word of any other dialect or tongue but her own.

CHAPTER VII.

Antony Sweetapple's teacher, and the go-between, did very-much better for the "mad foreign devil" than he deserved.

They got him a very clever wife, one who would certainly have been wasted on an ordinary coolie. True, she had no birth to speak of -- they could not have secured a well-born Chinawoman -- her father being simply the coolie who carried the missionaries' letters and parcels to the steamers, brought back their mails, and received in return from each separate household a small sum monthly which did not reach to a dollar. Mrs. Sweetapple herself when she married knew nothing of literature beyond the Romanised New Testament in the Yungkiang dialect. She never could or did learn how to write. But she had a soul above her Chinese home, and a will that was bound to carry through whatever her ambition planned for her.

Such a very clever woman! After various trying domestic passages, tears, salts'-bottles, and indignation, both Mrs. Masters and Mrs. Simpson had been induced to visit the bride, in the very early days of her marriage. They had found her sitting, in correct Chinese costume, her face plentifully painted and powdered, close to a small square red lacquer table covered with dishes of Chinese fruit. They had beea offered tea, had duly patronised her, and had gone away with that feeling of elation which signifies an unpleasant duty put behind one. And they had seen her no more till after their return from the hills in the following October.

But by that time, what a change had come over Mrs, Sweetapple! Instead of, as Antony had fondly hoped, adapting his household and European ways to her Chinese habits, she had only too effectually adapted herself to foreign manners!

The paint and powder had gone, with the (to her) becoming Chinese costume. Her hair was rolled up in innumerable little rolls on the top of her head, while her forehead was half concealed by a thick fringe which, steadfastly refusing to be influenced by crimping-irons, stuck out in manifold stiff prongs. Her dress was exaggeratedly European, although here the cloven foot of inherited tastes peeped out in the preponderance of bright reds and yellows. And the house, arranged as nearly as possible on the lines of Mrs. Simpson's own abode, was calculated to dispel for ever in the mind of any beholder the idea that Antony Sweetapple's wife was anything but thoroughly English!

And Antony himself had never been consulted, had never been listened to, had never been able to influence her in the least. Mrs. Sweetapple had made up her mind, from the day of that visit from Mrs. Masters and Mrs. Simpson, what she would do, and whom she would be like. She wanted to be just like Mrs. Simpson. For a very long time she had admired from a distance the Simpson household. The doctor, with his mysterious little packets of white powder wrapped up in ancient newspaper, on which he sprinkled a few magic drops from some "snake-medicine" before he gave them to the patient, was to her an individual only to be ranked with a Taoist priest skilled in magic. She had been ill once, while at school, and he had attended her, and cured her too, she firmly believed, by making some mysterious passes over what had seemed to be a simple cup of water. A marvellous man, the doctor, possessed of boundless power. Perfectly astonished was Mrs. Sweetapple to find her husband did not believe in him, nor indeed in any doctor at all.

More than astonished, she was scandalised with him, and rated him sharply in her native tongue for telling a young woman who had lost her eyesight through a clumsy attempt at operating for cataract, that she had only her want of faith to blame for her blindness.

"What, blind still!" she had overheard him say, and straightway her wrath blazed out. Nor would a mass of Biblical quotations appease her, and Antony only purchased a truce by faithfully promising not to work any more openly against Dr. Euripides Simpson.

But though Mrs. Sweetapple thought, highly of the doctor, she did not esteem the Mission converts, nor the rest of the missionaries themselves, in the same degree. Many very unpleasant truths concerning some of those he had fondly looked upon as brands plucked from the burning did poor Antony hear; of the way in which they tried to make the best of both worlds, to get their living out of the foreigner, and at the same time to keep in with their fellow-countrymen. And if he doubted any statement he was at once silenced with chapter and verse.

Further, instead of even being what Sinologues call a "sleeping dictionary," and helping her husband on with his Chinese studies, Mrs. Sweetapple steadily refused to speak anything with him but English. It did not take her long to pick up a fair smattering of "pidgin"; that she got from her servants. These were, of course, not the same that Dr. Masters had originally provided. They had been Christians, whose monthly "squeezes" were in direct ratio to the position they had acquired in the Church. Thus, a communicant might charge say, twenty per cent, on goods purchased, while an unbaptised "inquirer" could only venture on fifteen. Mrs. Sweetapple, however, would have none of these. She knew the market-prices, and she stuck to them. And yet she got excellent servants, trained by Europeans, from Shanghai, and her household treated her with greater respect than that accorded to any of the other missionaries' wives!

Of course she made her father retire into private life, allowing him to pay to a substitute a small fraction for doing his work, while he himself merely put in an appearance on pay-day. Antony himself had no idea his father-in-law was alive, his wife having been represented to him as an orphan living with an uncle. But had he known, it would not have turned him aside from marrying her. And it was because Mrs. Simpson knew she would be wasting her time that she never told Antony what his wife's family really was.

But when the Mission settled down for work in the October following Antony's marriage, mutiny broke out amongst the ladies.

Mrs. Sweetapple had grown quite too English. She had determined to force her way into missionary society.

Mrs. Masters and Mrs. Simpson were never safe for a single day now. Were they comfortably settled for a morning campaign, among clothes, or reports, or even merely communicating choice pieces of scandal to each other? That dreadful "Goo' mohaning!" was sure to come in through the window, to be followed by Mrs. Sweetapple herself, not through the front door, but through the self-same window. Inside the room, she was most abominably familiar. Mrs. Simpson was always in fear and trembling lest she should be kissed, and Mrs. Masters was overwhelmed with grandmotherly instruction in the arts of dress-making, housekeeping, sucking eggs, etc. Certainly Mrs. Sweetapple did put them up to various household economical tips, but the economy was dearly bought. It really was too annoying to have each new and secretly-devised garment imitated, and flaunted before their faces on her back the very day before they meant to astonish the world by appearing in it themselves! There may indeed be cases, more frequent than the maker of the proverb ever dreamed of, when imitation is something in addition to flattery!

Things came to such a pass at last that the ladies met together to plan making their husbands interfere.

Mrs. Masters could only complain, and point out how her health was being seriously affected. But Mrs. Simpson suggested a remedy.

"Send them up to the Mission House in Shan-shang," she proposed. "Mr. Sweetapple will have plenty of room for evangelising there, and we shall be rid of them."

"Supposing she refuses to go?" asked Mrs. Masters.

"She's very likely to do so," added Miss Evans, who had been called into the council. "Her family all live there. She can scarcely be the grand lady among her aunts and cousins!"

Miss Evans's health and temper had both got much worse during the last few months, in fact ever since her quarrel with Antony. Mrs. Sweetapple had never tried to force herself upon the spinster, having indeed always retained a most cordial hatred against her old school-mistress. But even this immunity from her presence had failed to make Miss Evans more kindly disposed towards the youthful aspirant to a place in society. Mrs. Sweetapple was Antony's wife, and so she was Miss Evans's foe.

"Don't let her have the choice!" answered Mrs. Simpson. "Get Dr. Masters to appoint Mr. Sweetapple to the place, and fill up the house they are now living in. She must go then!"

And as Miss Evans raised no further objections, the three at once adjourned to Dr. Masters' study, and submitted their plan to him.

They came at the most opportune of moments. Antony Sweetapple had just been signallising himself by refusing, before he had been asked, to bury young Lawson, or read any service over him. Which had meant, that a letter from the Consul requesting Dr. Masters to perform that service was at that moment lying on the good man's desk.

"And they would never have dreamt of asking me to do this if the idea had not been put into their heads!"

Yes, Dr. Masters was only too glad to get rid of Antony Sweetapple. At once, that very day, that very hour, for ever, if it had been possible. As it was, he had to hum and haw, and talk of prayer, and Divine guidance and direction, and run through all the orthodox phraseology prescribed for such contingencies. But his prayers were short and speedy, and the Divine direction was not delayed. Within a week Antony Sweetapple was called into Dr. Masters' study, and told he had been given charge, sole charge and care, of an advance-guard and outlying post in the missionary army. His present place (with his house) was to be given to two somewhat full-blown young ladies (as regarded age and looks), who being new to Mission work would not be able to stand the solitude and the self-denying life now to open before Antony.

"For you will have only natives round you. The only other foreigners belong to the large Roman Catholic Mission there."

"Thank you!"

Dr. Masters' conscience pricked him just a little. For Antony's first act on hearing of his banishment was to kneel down and thank God for this favour.

CHAPTER VIII.

But though Antony might enjoy the prospect of his new life, his wife certainly did not.

What room was there in the little poky Chinese-Anglified house for her piano, for example? For Mrs. Sweetapple had insisted on purchasing this purely white elephant, -- which was of course never opened from one year's end to the other, -- because it was a necessary feature in an English drawing-room. Then her various toilettes, was it not too bad to have to waste them on the desert air of Shan-sbang? For the first week or so Mrs. Sweetapple was thoroughly miserable in her new home.

And then she dried her tears, and like a sensible woman made the best of circumstances.

Not by employing herself in Mission work -- that she left to her husband. But she made a daily royal progress in a brand-new chair, carried by coolies in a livery designed by herself, right through her ancestral village. The natives, unaccustomed to such dazzling glory, daily ran together to admire and gape open-mouthed. And Mrs. Sweetapple, delicately gloved and toying with a cardcase, leaned back, and imagined herself a queen.

Antony, on the other hand, had thrown himself heart and soul into his Mission-work. Morning, noon, and night he careered about, preaching, exhorting, in a sadly unknown tongue; happy when he was tired to death, more than happy when some miserable beggar, supplicating alms and displaying horrible wounds by the roadside, had actually given him a patient hearing. Nay, he even came to believe himself successful, to plan writing an account to some Missionary paper of his first promising "case" -- and all this in spite of that great fortress of Satan, the Roman Catholic Cathedral, which was right over against him.

For Shan-shang was a great trading centre also, and the biggest Roman Catholic colony in all the country round. On the top of the hill stood the Cathedral, a beautiful building, and about it clustered the houses of the priests, the orphanage, the hospital, and the schools. A well-made road wound round the hill, and for a long time the Catholics had held sole possession of the place. But they had offended, some ten years past, one of the landowners, and he, to spite them, had sold a Naboth's vineyard, close to the Cathedral, to the Baptist Mission in Yungkiang. They had built a little house on their land, intending to use it as a sanatorium. But the ladies had raised so many objections to it as a summer residence that the original project had been dropped, and the house had remained unoccupied till Antony's wife had appeared on the scene.

So Antony found himself not only set to fight against Heathenism, but against the terrible Scarlet Woman who owns the Pope for her lord, and who gives to the Virgin that worship intended for Christ alone.

Antony was, so to speak, between two fires. Straight before him frowned the bulwarks of Confucius, with those other two devils more wicked than himself -- Buddha and Tao. But in his rear was that far more dangerous foe, the foreigner, -- who under the guise of Catholicism was lying in wait to devour souls. Antony felt that this enemy must be crushed, simultaneously with his grand attack on native idolatry. Qp here in Sang-shang there were only the two creeds to choose between. No such difficulties as distinctions between Episcopalians, First or Seventh Day Baptists, Wesleyans, or Presbyterians, were presented to an anxious "enquirer." No, Antony had only to expose one set of errors; but it was such a surpassingly great task, this work of exposure, that any man short of an enthusiast would have shrunk from it.

It would be of no use, he felt convinced, to seek to expostulate with the Fathers themselves. He must hold up their deeds to the light, that all the world might know them to be evil.

And so, with the assistance of his teacher, and a native convert (or pervert) from the Roman Catholics themselves, Antony Sweetapple drew up a most formidable indictment against Papists, in the form of a violent Chinese placard, whereof his fellow-workers gave him a fairly exact translation. Special stress was laid on the celibacy of the missionaries, and warning was given to parents to keep their children away from dangerous' influences. Mysterious doings were hinted at, and miracles in connection with the bones of dead people were openly scoffed at. It was indeed a most admirably worded placard, and Antony felt quite proud of himself, and of his "zeal for the Lord," when he saw it lying, complete and ready for distribution, on his dining-room table.

Mrs. Sweetapple too, who was possessed with all a Chinese's reverence for the written word, was for the first time since she came to Shan-shang impressed with her husband's power. And she entirely agreed with him that the notices should be pasted up at once on the Cathedral walls, outside the orphanage, and elsewhere far and wide; and that it was quite unnecessary to wait for Dr. Masters' sanction.

And as she was carried through the village street that afternoon, and saw knots of natives listening to a learned scribe who was translating her husband's placard into language understanded of the people, she felt that a reflected glory was playing round her head, which almost reconciled her to her banishment from Yungkiang.

But Dr. Masters shook his head over that same placard, and wrote a cautiously worded letter to Antony recommending him to devote himself more entirely to his native work. And it is certainly still a very moot question how far Dr. Masters was wrong in not openly disapproving of such placards, as also how much of responsibility for after-events rested on Antony's shoulders.

But, as regarded the present, what pity, what sorrow and holy anger, did not the Catholics cause him! Such devoted men and women he had never come across. And to think it was all goodness wasted, all devotedness thrown away! Hard it was even for an Antony Sweetapple to grasp, and to teach, as it was his duty to do, that the prayers of a Roman Catholic were sin, and displeasing to the Almighty.

Still, in spite of the Roman Catholics, in spite of the disappointment his wife was to him, in spite of his disenchantment respecting his fellow-workers, Antony was very happy at Shan-shang.

So happy, that on Christmas Eve, as he looked from his little study across to the brilliantly lighted-up windows of the Cathedral, he had no room in his soul for any ill-feeling against the idolaters assembled within its walls. What mattered it if the priests were darkening the counsel of the Lord, and putting the creature in the place of the Creator? Perhaps that thick darkness was part of the Divine plan for the salvation of the Chinese nation, since it was on "those who gat in darkness" that the light of the Gospel had at first shined.

A light to lighten the Gentiles I Just such a light as that one, shining, twinkling, moving about over on that hill yonder, where lay the Chinese camp. Just like those lights moving, shifting, coming ever nearer, along that road which led up from the village.

And still the sound of the organ rolling forth some wonderful midnight mass came wafted through the lighted windows, and children's voices echoed, with a sweetness he did not think possible within the boundaries of the Four Seas:

Adeste, fideles, loeti triumphantes,
Venite, venite in Betldehem: 
Natum videte Regem Angelorum:
Venite, adoremus: Venite, adoremus:
Venite, adoremus Dominum!

It was such a grand hymn, and so magnificently given, that Antony, notwithstanding a slight twinge of conscience, opened his window to listen.

But as he listened, the organ seemed to give a wild shriek, and the hymn broke off into the most awful yell mortal ever heard.

In one moment, and before Antony had time to collect his senses, or had time to think what had happened, or was happening, tongues of fire seemed to surround and shoot out of all the windows of the Cathedral. Could he be dreaming? was he not asleep? Or was he only too wide awake, and were those real hot tongues of fire that were seeking to devour the silver tongues of the sweet-voiced choir? He was not long to be left in doubt.

Just below his house, right and left as far as the eye, guided by the flames, could see, suddenly came into sight a seething mass of yelling, excited Chinamen. Men, women, and children were hurrying along, some armed with bamboos, others with torches, others again, these evidently soldiers, with guns. The narrow street was swarming with them, and still on and on they came. And all the while the great Cathedral flamed, and out from its burning walls seemed to come the most fiendish cries and calls for help, and nearly overhead the bell of the convent rang a tocsin that struck fear even into an Englishman's heart.

He walked through the window, across his little verandah, and into the very midst of the crowd. There he stumbled up against a certain beggar who one of his special proteges, and who was being carried helplessly along with the stream of people.

"What is it? What is it?" he asked eagerly.

But before the beggar could answer, if he had been minded so to do, Mrs. Sweetapple had caught hold of him from behind, and was pulling him indoors.

"What thing?" she said sharply. "You no savey? I afternoon have savey; too muchey man talkee my! Belong Chinese man too muchey angry Frenchman. Frenchman to-day take away two piecey baby; wanchee take away eyes, makey medicine. Just now Chinese man makey all Frenchman die!"

There was the most perfect satisfaction in her voice. She evidently had no doubt of the truth of the statement, and considered that a just vengeance was being, wreaked on the perpetrators of such a vile deed.

"Fool-pidgin!" answered Antony angrily, struggling to free himself from her grasp. "What thing you talkee? What for afternoon you no come talkee my? Can do! My wanchee go see."

But Mrs, Sweetapple had no intention of letting her husband go.

"Man man!" she whispered hoarsely. "Come inside, I can talkee you every thing."

And Antony unwisely obeyed her. But no sooner had she got him inside than she closed and locked the door.

"You no go outside!" she said, shaking a warning finger at him. "This soldier-man too muchey angry, every Frenchman wanchee die. You go bed, you all right. You go outside, you quick die!"

"But, you stupid woman!" cried Antony impatiently, "I can't stop here and let all these people be killed! I must go and help them!"

"What for go?" sneered his wife. "You any time talkee, this belong very bad man. All right, bad man wanchee die!"

And satisfied that she had convinced him, Mrs. Sweetapple straightway ascended the stairs.

And Antony stood irresolute, in the hall lighted up by that lurid glow, undecided as to his duty.

The spirit of his fathers in him cried out to go and risk his life for his fellow-foreigners, for those saintly mistaken women, for those hard-pressed men. And that old Adam was very strong in him to-night.

But what he believed to be the "new man" actually rose up and told him it was the Almighty whose decrees these savages were blindly obeying, that it was the gentle Redeemer who was vindicating his own honour in this destruction of idolatry.

And, was he not bound to stay at home and protect his own wife? Might the mob not turn on his house at any moment?

They were turning even now. The voices were coming nearer and nearer; they were just under the windows and outside the door. Bat they were not coming after him, but after some fugitives whose knocks and calls to open he could here above all the uproar. And then came a cry he could not resist, the cry of foreign women, though in the Chinese tongue:

"Let us in! For the love of heaven, let us in!"

There was no room for hesitation now. Antony ran to the door, and unlocked it, before his wife, rushing down the stairs, could intercept him. And the door, pushed open from the outside, admitted two breathless, bleeding Sisters. But after them, and before he had time to shut it, streamed in the mob, furious and beyond all control. With a shriek Mrs. Sweetapple gained a back entrance, and fled for her life -- fled, lighted on her way by the flames of the home she had just left.

She was the only member of either Mission who escaped. Antony's body, with his head battered in, was found next morning lying just inside his own doorway. Near him were the bodies of the two Sisters whose suspicious-looking cloaks, under which the missing children were supposed to be concealed, had caused his and their deaths.

But the Chinese Government had to pay largely, and England and France exacted several heads. The indemnity was quite large enough to build a finer Cathedral than the former one, and the Baptist Mission had more applicants for enrolment in its ranks than it had ever had before. So sure is it that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church, though perchance not of converts.

Still, although they wept for him, and discovered all the beauties of his mind, and lamented for him as for a brother, the ladies of the Mission give secret thanks to this day that as yet a second Antony Sweetapple has not arisen amongst them.

IN THE SIXTIES.

PART I.

CHAPTER I.

LONG, long ago, in the good old days, before France began to think of Tongking, before Germany began to think of ousting England in the Far East, before Russia dreamt of a Pacific ice-free port; half-way and more through the Sixties, when dollars were worth the getting and bimetallism a fancy topic of conversation; when fortunes could be made in a decade, if at the peril of one's life, -- some thirty years ago, in short, a grand cleaning, scrubbing and dusting had been going on for a fortnight in the house of the Commissioner of Imperial Maritime Customs, Amoy, South China.

Now the Commissioner was a man who usually left his servants to do just as much, or as little, as they chose to do. His was precisely the establishment a Chinaman delights in, where there is no troublesome "missisy" to demand monthly, weekly, or even daily accounts, to compare expenses with some experienced friend, and to generally make herself obnoxious. Provided his meals were served punctually, Mr. Watkins was fairly indifferent as to what he was made to swallow. Provided his own particular armchair held together, he did not care if the rest of his furniture was allowed to crumble away through neglect or white ants. Such was the normal state of Mr. Watkins and of Mr. Watkins' household for eleven mouths in every year.

But when the twelfth month, marked in the calendar as May, came round, the aspect of the great dreary house on the top of the hill changed. Every available coolie, both in Mr. Watkins' house and in his office, every Customs boatman, every watchman, every odd man, was pressed into the work of cleaning. The odour of carbolic fluids, of patent soaps and insect-destroying powders pervaded the whole compound, and made the house smell like the disinfecting ward of a hospital. Scrubbing cloths and dusting brushes, sufficient to last an ordinary Chinese household for a generation, were recklessly given out. Mosquito-nets were repaired, centipedes and lizards were terrified from their resting-places, boxes of stores arrived from Hongkong, the official servants received fresh uniforms, and Mr, Watkins himself spent a whole day picking out white trousers, and coats which were neither frayed at the cuffs, nor shaky about the buttonholes, nor badly iron-moulded. For Mrs. Ratcliff was expected for her yearly visit.

Everybody in China knew Mrs. Ratcliff, or at any rate knew all about her. Her husband, Mr. Ratcliff, was head of one of the largest hongs in Shanghai, a good solid fellow, not brilliant in a drawing-room, but excellent in his own place -- the office. Mrs. Ratcliff, who had made her first appearance in the East as something between a nursery-governess and a lady's maid, had married him solely on account of his money and position. There was indeed nothing attractive about Mr. Ratcliff besides these. Had his wife followed her own inclinations she would undoubtedly have married her first love, David Watkins, who was then a young fellow with plenty of brains and plenty of looks, but with nothing standing to his account at the Bank. There had been no hesitation possible in Mrs. Ratcliff's case. She married the rich man, of course, but, amazing to say, the poor man did not object. On the contrary, the Ratcliff marriage seemed to bring them closer together, -- perhaps because the lady now occupied an exalted position -- which is usually found to attract all eyes and all criticism, -- and from that date onwards their names were always coupled together; in early days, as lovers and as the subjects of ill-natured gossip and scandal; in later years, when Mr. Watkins had become a Commissioner of Customs with a solid income, as types of China Coast "friends." More than this, they actually became models on which later arrivals were wont to form themselves. Other wives' husbands had no business to object to tertium quids -- Mr. Ratcliff didn't object. A man and a woman could be friends, Platonically, for ever and a day, and no whisper go forth of the Divorce Court -- witness Mrs. Ratcliff and Mr. Watkins. And no sensible husband could possibly object to his wife's paying long visits to her particular "friend" -- because Mr. Ratcliff made no objection to Mrs. Ratcliffs yearly visit to Mr. Watkins.

How many households along the China coast came nigh or altogether to shipwreck by striving to imitate the Ratcliff-Watkins friendship, it is not here the place to record. Perhaps the shipwrecks would have come anyhow, even if Mrs. Ratcliff had been married to a different husband.

But however much opinion might be divided as regarded the propriety of Mrs. Ratcliff's conduct from the wife's point of view, there were no two minds as to its inexpediency, not to say wrongfulness, from the mother's standpoint, now that her only daughter, Violet, had come out to China from school.

For Mrs. Ratcliff had a daughter, and a very pretty daughter too. Pretty with the prettiness of youth, and rosy cheeks, and laughing eyes; with the prettiness alas I which belongs to youth alone, and which freckles, or turns yellow and leathery, or red and coarse, even before the fatal age of thirty. Not a beauty such as her mother had been, and still was, -- with regular features, a tall and graceful figure, a skin that refused to wrinkle, and a face that looked only more youthful when crowned with matronly bonnets. Mrs. Ratcliff had no need of hair-dyes or cosmetics; she possessed the secret of eternal youth. But she also possessed its disadvantages -- its giddinesses, its want of mental and moral equilibrium, its hardness, and the like. Violet's mother was certainly not a safe guide; rather, she was decidedly a bad example for a girl of eighteen just out of the schoolroom.

Witness what she did on the present occasion. Only one month after Violet's arrival in Shanghai, she took her daughter with her down to Amoy to stay with Mr. Watkins.

Mrs. Ratcliff's female acquaintances in Shanghai (she had no friends but men) were aghast at this proceeding. Had Violet been left behind with her father, they would probably have been equally aghast. But as remonstrances would have been wasted on the erring Mrs. Ratcliff, they reserved their opinions for select tea-parties, and confined themselves in general society to hoping "dear Violet" would be none the worse (morally) for the trip.

But the two went down to Amoy, and were received with open arms and a great flourish of entertainments by the Amoy people. Not that they (at least, the ladies) approved of Mrs. Ratcliff a whit more than did their Shanghai sisters, but she was the Commissioner's guest, and brought with her the latest fashions, and was quite willing that her dresses should be copied, and was so generally amiable that it was impossible not to shew her the best China coast hospitality. So, just as in former years, Mrs. Ratcliff and Mr. Watkins went out for walks, and rides, and sails by themselves, giving the scandal-mongers round the Club-bar food for tongue-wagging during the next half-year. As for Violet, Mrs. Ratcliff gave her full liberty to amuse herself just as she chose. For this was holiday-time, and even mothers are not expected to look after their daughters on such occasions.

Now in those days the Amoy community consisted of but few ladies, all, with one exception, missionaries, and of a good many bachelors. These last, mostly clerks in tea houses, were accustomed to spend their lives mainly in pyjamas, and were warranted to consume unknown quantities of whisky and soda without any visible detriment to their health. The Consulate staff were bachelors; so were nearly all the Customs officials. The only lady "in the swing" was the Deputy-Commissioner's wife, abhorred by Mr. Watkins as a "giggling goose," and not to be trusted to take charge of any girl. It was very awkward indeed that Mrs. Ratcliff had brought down Violet! For the Commissioner realised, what Mrs. Ratcliff certainly had not, that Violet ought to be provided with an escort. So, the day after his guests had arrived, Mr. Watkins summoned his most trustworthy Assistant into his private office, and solemnly made Violet over to him.

"I know I can trust you, Kennedy," he said anxiously. "Nominally Miss Ratcliff will be under Mrs. Denman's charge, -- that is, if Mrs. Ratcliff herself is not able to go everywhere with her daughter. But a lady isn't always quite enough, and -- in short, Kennedy, I have the greatest confidence in you!"

"Certainly, sir," Wilfrid Kennedy had answered. And Mr. Watkins had gone across to his own house, and had told Mrs. Ratcliff she need not trouble about Violet. For he had given her as special charge to the only dangerous young man in Amoy, and had thus made it impossible for him to fall in love with her.

Mr. Watkins had a fine contempt for women, Mrs. Ratcliff of course excepted. He did not consider them capable of genuinely falling in love, and explained away their desire to get married as simply arising from the feminine notion that being married advanced women in the social scale. Love and marriage had nothing to do with each other, he said; and all his personal experience had but tended to confirm Mr. Watkins in his theories. Further, to the Commissioner "girls" were uninteresting, and Violet was a girl. He certainly never for one moment dreamt that she could fall in love with Kennedy of her own initiative.

Moreover, Wilfrid Kennedy was scarcely, in the Commissioner's opinion, a marrying man. He was about twenty-six, fair, and distinctly youthful in appearance. His companions reckoned him a good-hearted fellow, and he was a decided favourite with the older men and the ladies. I do not fancy he was overburdened with brains; but he was a thorough gentleman, in his instincts as well as in his behaviour. Wilfrid was, indeed, the "useful man" of the community. As regarded his personal history, he had come out to China on a nomination in the Customs service at the age of nineteen, and had just now completed his first seven years of service.

As everyone in China knows, at the end of his first seven years of service a Customs Assistant may apply for two years' leave on half-pay, which period he may spend anywhere -- usually "at home," viz. Europe -- his return passage to China being paid for him. But of those Assistants who may take their leave, under such favourable conditions, there are a great many who do not find themselves in a position to do so, and this in spite of having received regular and excellent pay during their period of service. At the end of his first seven years in China a man has often saved nothing, his brain having been turned by the mere possession of money, seemingly inexhaustible to one who has perhaps been brought up in narrow circumstances. Or, he has been bitten rabidly by what is known as "Sinology," and lives, speaks, thinks, and dreams of nothing but the Chinese language and literature. Or, he has been drawn into the ring of speculators, and has risked, even if he has not lost, all his savings in strange and wonderful mines and companies. Or, he is drinking himself into an untimely grave. And as it is far easier to live on nothing at all, and to die leaving your family to your friends, or to be a Chinese student, or to be a speculator, or to be a hard drinker, in the East than in the West, the man of seven years generally stays out fourteen.

And this was just what Wilfrid Kennedy, though he belonged to none of the last three classes, would have done, had he been able.

Life in the Far East had set its mark on him, a mark which even he himself could perceive. When he first came out to China he was, as behoved the son of a country parson, a good, religious young man, -- good, perhaps, because he had never been tested. He had boldly, not to say aggressively, produced his Bible at night amongst his cabin-mates, and had steadily read the portion appointed by the Union to which he belonged -- till he dropped out of the way of doing so, when his books of devotion were left behind in the transfer at Galle. As for Church attendance, -- there had been no Church in the first port to which he had been sent, and by the time he was transferred to a more privileged place he had adopted the fashionable attitude of contempt towards the missionary body. His total abstinence pledge was of course foredoomed; six days in an ordinary Junior Assistants' mess had finished that matter. And yet no one called Wilfrid Kennedy a fast young man, nor a regular "soaker"; though it must be admitted that, in common with those around him, he often, still oftener as the years went by, took rather more to drink than was good for him. All that really happened to him was that, being a weak young fellow, and infinitely afraid of being laughed at, he accommodated himself to his surroundings, which surroundings were altogether different from those of a country parsonage in England.

But now, when he was obliged to go home, for reasons shortly to be stated, Wilfrid Kennedy had been -- well, not appalled, because he had had every reason to suspect such would be the case, but -- very disagreeably disgusted to find that his balance at his banker's was simply nil. Not a red cent had he saved; and yet there was absolutely nothing to show for all the salary he had so regularly received and spent. It was astonishing how ten dollars here, five dollars there, a few boxes of curios sent home from time to time, often by request for those gigantic swindles, bazaars for charitable objects, -- how all such trifling sums had mounted up. Could it be that ten dollars a month, a very moderate sum, spent on that legalised gamble, the Manila Lottery, had cost him over 160 in these seven years? Ten dollars, with the dollar at four and twopence, the very smallest amount he could have set aside! The more Wilfrid Kennedy looked at his bank book, the more he plunged into the hopeless chaos of his unpaid bills, with their inscrutable and not-to-be checked headings of "to account rendered," the more had he realised that, if money was to be made in the Far East, he at any rate was not the man to make it.

And so, just before the Ratcliffs appeared in Amoy, Wilfrid Kennedy had determined to turn over a new leaf, and to save hard for the last three months of his period of service. Accordingly, he had stormed at his astonished "boy" when that individual produced an account for a fresh stock of whisky for the benefit of Wilfrid's visitors. The whisky was kept in case of sudden illness, but the boy was ordered to say "no got" should any passer-by call in for a long drink. And, in case he should fall into his old easygoing ways through idleness, Kennedy commanded his teacher to be in readiness for four hours' study of Chinese every day, Sundays included. And when the Hongkong tailor came round, Wilfrid Kennedy actually refused to buy an absolutely necessary afternoon coat, announcing his intention of appearing in London "just as he was," to the unutterable disgust of the "Poole" of the coast. He even, for the space of one whole half-hour, seriously contemplated taking his name off the Club books. But alas for good intentions! The Ratcliffs came; Mr. Watkins interviewed him; and away went economy with the Chinese dictionary and the teacher, until a more convenient season should arrive. The Commissioner made no mistake when he put Violet Ratcliff into Wilfrid Kennedy's hands. Wilfrid did not, to his own knowledge at least, fall in love with Miss Ratcliff. But Miss Ratcliff fell in love with him. Which, had it been known abroad, would undoubtedly have been characterised as shocking, most unmaidenly, though only to be expected from the daughter of such a mother. But then it wasn't known, at least officially known, though of course all Amoy had declared it must be a match, and a devilish good one for Kennedy. What else could be expected, when the two were together, morning, noon, and night? True, there was the worldly mother to reckon with; but at any rate nobody else in Amoy had a chance. In vain the German Baron, with no estates but infinite pretensions, had twirled his long moustache, and murmured compliments in unintelligible English. In vain the poet of the community had composed a masterpiece in her honour, wherein "Violet" rhymed to "my pilot," and had recited the same with great effect to a chosen few. In vain the taipan of the largest hong, a stoutish man of means, with a well filled stable and excellent table, had brought forth after dinner his album, crammed with photographs of adoring fair ones, and had besought Violet to place her portrait as frontispiece to the volume. Violet had just given away her only remaining photograph, and that without consulting even Mrs. Denman, to fill a certain frame on Wilfrid Kennedy's mantelpiece.

Surely he would have been superhuman had he been able to resist at least flirting with a girl who so openly showed her liking for him, and who was, moreover, the only girl he had seen for months! At any rate, the Amoy community never doubted but that Wilfrid made the most of his opportunities. At picnics Violet and he paired off quite naturally, just after the fashion of their elders and guardians, and a third quickly found himself de trop; for the two seemed to have an immense deal to say to each other. Now what can young men and maidens talk about, but the Soul, and Life (with capitals be it noted), or Heart-union and Affinities, which talk the common herd calls love-making? So, at any rate, Mrs. Denman thought, and so she told the horrified Commissioner at the crowning dinner-party of the season. And in this she was only the mouthpiece of the Community, which knew nothing about the photograph.

Still, they were all wrong, and Mr. Watkins alone was right.

For, after the two had broken the ice, and through some little trivial, to-other-eyes-unnoticed accident had become friends rather than acquaintances, Violet Rateliff suddenly found that she had been put in a sacred place in Kennedy's imagination, and that he was regarding her in a light that was certainly false,, but which could not fail to be enormously flattering to her personal vanity. So flattering indeed, that she could not help doing her share in keeping up the delusion. This pleasant, amiable, but decidedly commonplace schoolgirl discovered, on the last evening of her stay in Amoy, that to Wilfrid Kennedy she was no ordinary girl of flesh and blood, but an abstraction, a saint, a wonderful phoenix, an ideal woman. A woman he imagined her without any of the faults, or selfish feelings, or jealous sensibilities of her sex, and yet at the same time a woman in whom to confide, a woman to sympathise, to soothe, and to advise; and all this nnflecked by any intrusion of self! In brief, Wilfrid Kennedy set up Violet Rateliff on a pedestal, and then fell down before her and worshipped her; utterly oblivious of the fact that she was a creature of like passions with himself.

And so he told her, to Violet who knew nothing of this evil world, all the story of how he had wasted his life. He confessed to her how he had slipped away from what she (his ideal Violet) must approve of; and he asked her advice as to the best manner of pulling himself together again. All this he told her on a bright moonlight night, at a picnic on a little island in the outer harbour of Amoy, when plenty of champagne had oiled the rusty key of his conscience, and the unusual sensation of having a sympathetic listener had turned his head, as he was to realise all too painfully by and by.

And Violet gave her crude advice, and felt flattered at being consulted, and for the time actually imagined herself the ideal woman Wilfrid thought she was, and therefore forgot to play with her eyes, or to shrug her shoulders, or to make smart repartees, or to invite compliments by turning the conversation back to herself. No one had ever known, no one was ever to know, or to dream of, the Violet Ratcliff with whom Wilfrid Kennedy talked that evening. Some skilled in palmistry tell us there are certain lines on the hand which shew what a person was meant to be, by Nature. Alas! what Nature meant is often only too clearly recognisable, by the difference between these "birth" lines on the one hand and those corresponding on the other hand, marking how a disposition, or a destiny, has been warped, or forced aside by circumstances! But Wilfrid Kennedy saw only, so to speak, Violet's "birth" lines that evening -- knew her only as she might have been.

And yet he had told her a hard thing, what he had never confided even to his dearest China friend, not even to that poor young fellow who had gone out of his mind and shot himself, for love of the cruel stony blue eyes of the only lady in an out-of-the-way port. Wilfrid had told Violet why he must go home, and for whom; he had told her all his love-story; how it had gradually grown into his life, and how he now feared, with a dread born even with his speaking, that he himself had grown out of fitness for and harmony with It.

"We have always known her," he said. "She was at school with my elder sisters, and in the holidays she often came to stay with us. She was awfully good to me when I was quite a little chap, far kinder than my own sisters. I used to tell her everything, and she would give me advice, and she used to make me promise to go to Church, and the like. She used to give me religious books too, such books as nice-minded girls in England keep on their shelves -- little books bound in leather, with red edges and ribbon markers. That went on for years and years, right up to the time when I came out to China. How good she was to me! Even you couldn't have been kinder!"

Wilfrid Kennedy was pulling himself up instinctively, giving Violet the chance of changing the subject. But Violet didn't take it. She was leaning back in a cane chair Wilfrid had brought her, looking over her fan at the far away lights of the foreign settlement on the island of Kulangsu. The moonlight just touched with its weird chillness the tips of her fingers and the edge of the skirt of her dress. Near by, the German Baron was leading a stirring chorus in a drinking-song. And just below, close to the water's edge, Mr. Watkins and Mrs. Ratcliff were pacing up and down, living over again old days, and speaking those last words for which there would be no time on the morrow.

"And when I was to come out to China," Wilfrid went on, unconsciously lowering his voice, "though she was far too good for me, though she was rich and I was poor, she allowed me to become engaged to her. Even now, though I am so much older, and have seen so much of the world, I cannot understand how she ever came to care for me, in the marrying way, I mean. Why, she was almost grown up when I remember her first, and I was scarcely out of the nursery! But she has told me since, and indeed I believe it, that she liked me from the very beginning in (juite a peculiar way, and that she has never cared for any other man. And she has never missed a single mail in writing to me. I wish I could say as much! All her people were terribly against our engagement at first -- of course they thought me too young -- but she writes me that they are quite willing now. But, she was always far too good for me!"

There was a tone of veritable contrition and self-abasement in Wilfrid Kennedy's voice that gave Violet a sudden uneasy sensation. Some difficult point was going to be raised soon; some question she would not be able to answer; something was going to be submitted to her judgment concerning which she would not be able to answer impersonally. But she had neither the courage nor the wit to keep off the impending danger. She simply kept silence.

"I'm not tiring you, am I, Miss Ratcliff?" Wilfrid asked suddenly. "These things can't really have any interest for you. I'm very sorry I have troubled you, I really am!"

"Go on, please," Violet answered. "Don't you know I must take an interest in anything that concerns you, and especially -- "

Was this indeed the worldly Mrs. Ratcliff's daughter that was speaking? Surely some of her mother's old charm must have descended to her; that charm which had held clear-headed unsentimental Mr. Watkins a captive slave these twenty years. Wilfrid Kennedy did go on.

"I would awfully like you to give me your opinion on one point, on a point that shall decide all my life for me," he said, turning away his head so completely that Violet had to strain her ears to catch his words. "Knowing what you do know, what I have told you of my life, what an utter and arrant humbug I shall have to be if I go home now and join in her life, and marry her -- for she is thoroughly and deeply religious, and lives in a religious set, -- now, do you think I ought to go? Wouldn't it be the right and straightforward thing for me to write to her, and tell her plainly exactly where I am, and where I intend to stay, as regards religion, and so give her the chance of breaking off her engagement, and of giving me up altogether?"

"And what would you do when you got home then?" asked Violet. "How would you meet her?"

"I shouldn't go home. I should have nothing to go home for. I should stay out here, as other men do, and try to follow your advice, and make my life better. A bachelor in China is not necessarily a miserable man!"

Wilfrid was looking towards Mr. Watkins now, to Mr. Watkins who was actually laughing a real, genuine laugh, such as only Mrs. Ratcliff could draw out of him.

"He is very happy," Violet answered, following Kennedy's eyes. "But it is only for two weeks in the year, just the two weeks she is here."

A strange thing for a daughter to say; but it did not seem strange to either of them. Kennedy was thinking of his own troubles alone, and vaguely wondering why they now seemed to have sprung up from molehills into mountains. And Violet was thinking -- was it only of this stranger woman far away in England, and of the heartache that was threatening her?

"I am so afraid that she will be disappointed in me; in my looks too, as well as in my mind. Don't you think a man changes, and ages, dreadfully in seven years?"

Wilfrid spoke anxiously, as a man speaks who is searching hard to find some, any door of escape from a position he all at once feels to be intolerable.

"You, at your age, cannot have changed nearly so much as you will find she has changed, at hers."

This, which Violet felt to be a brutal truth, very nearly slipped out of her mouth. But she swallowed it down, with a gulp of shame at her petty spitefulness, and answered, in what was a distinctly unnatural voice:

"If she really loves you, she will not care about your looks. Women don't; I know they don't. Don't fret yourself any more as to what will happen to you. Go home and marry her, and everything will come right."

"Is that what you tell me, Miss Ratcliff? I'll do whatever you say."

And he turned and looked her full in the face.

Luckily for Violet, the moon had just gone behind a cloud. For though she could control her voice, she might not have been able to command her face. And Wilfrid might have seen mirth in it, at the ridiculousness of consulting her; or peevishness, at the turn their conversation had taken away from that most interesting of subjects, her own person; or perchance a shadow of sorrow -- that sorrow which is too often the fate of a sirl whose elders and wisers have not taught her to keep guard over her own heart, lest some passing stranger wound it fatally. The cloud over the moon may have been responsible for many evil hours in two lives.

"Yes, I say go, and I'm sure you won't repent it!"

Then, through the darkness, came to them sonorously from the German Baron's chest, with a strong reinforcement from his companions in the chorus, with stampings, and shoutings, and clinking of glasses, the time-immemorial Amoy "birthday" drinking song: -- 

Und wer im Januar geboren ist,
Steh auf! steh auf I steh auf!
Der nehm' sein Glasehen in die Hand,
Und trink'es aus bis auf den Grund,
Triuk' aus! tvink' aus! trink' aus!

Here followed a pause, during which the man whose birthday came in January emptied his glass. Then the chorus burst out: -- 

Hat's gut gemacht! hat's gut gemacht!
D'rum wird Er auch nicht ausgelacht!

"Ah, I must join in that!" Violet cried. "My birthday is in February; my turn next! Come along, Mr. Kennedy, I can't resist that chorus!"

"Time to be going home, and ending all choruses," chimed in Mr. Watkins from down below. Your mother is tired, Violet, and this is the last night you will have in a level bed for some days to come. You will have rough weather for your trip up to Shanghai; it's going to blow hard to-morrow!"

"That will make you stay, perhaps," Kennedy whispered.

But Violet only answered:

"I hope not. I've made up my mind to go, and I don't want to stay in Amoy any longer!"

Which was an unkind and ungracious thing to say, but one which served Wilfrid Kennedy quite right.

* * * * *

"Very strange Mr. Kennedy didn't come to see you off!" Mrs. Ratcliff said to her daughter as the steamer slipped gently round Kulangsu Island next day, and the various picnic spots passed them by. The mother and the daughter had the deck all to themselves, and Mrs. Ratcliff was actually talking to Violet for the first time since many days. It was a very short-lived chance of talking now; for beyond the outer harbour of Amoy they were to expect "dirty weather," which Mrs. Ratcliff never attempted to face. She would not wait till the crockery in the ship's pantry began to crash and the screw to make endless revolutions in the air, but would go to bed as soon as the steamer was in the open, to live on champagne and all the delicacies that could be provided till Woosung and the mouth of the Shanghai river came in sight.

"I thought you and Mr. Kennedy were such friends," Mrs. Ratcliff went on. "I'm sure he never left your side. A nice-looking, gentlemanly young fellow too. Didn't he ever make love to you, Violet?"

The steamer had come opposite the spot on the island where Mr. Watkins was stationed to make his final signals of farewell. Mrs. Ratcliff vigorously waved her handkerchief in answer; but the part of her year wherein Mr. Watkins was the central figure was over and, so far as her sentiments touching him were concerned, done with. She was already thinking far more of what she was going to do, and to be, in Shanghai than of the "bear with a sore head," as Mrs. Denman would call him that evening, left alone on Kulangsu. Indeed, Wilfrid Kennedy and Violet actually interested her more than her own "friend" at that moment.

"Mr. Kennedy couldn't make love to me," Violet answered bitterly, for she was feeling hurt that Wilfrid had not come to say goodbye. "He is going home to be married."

"Is he really?" Mrs. Ratcliff asked with the eagerest interest. "Who to? Did he shew you her photo? Is she pretty? Where did he meet her?"

"I haven't seen her photo," Violet said crossly. "He was engaged to her before he came out to China, and she's ever so much older than he is!"

"Dear me, what a pity!" cried Mrs. Ratcliff. "But I daresay she has money; there must be some attraction somewhere. I'm sorry all the same for him, for he's a nice young fellow, and it's quite a shame that he has got to sacrifice himself. Just see, Violet, how wrongly the world judges. Mrs. Denman thought he was in love with you, and that you were in love with him. I knew you better, but T wasn't sure of him. I thought, and still think, he couldn't trust himself to say goodbye to you. And now he has to go and marry some one else; and even if he hadn't got to marry lier, he never could have married you!"

This was the longest moralisation Violet had ever heard from her mother. It was a consoling one too; not only because it was all about a man whom Violet longed to hear discussed, even should the discussion consist of blame, but also comforting, because it gave a flattering reason for Wilfrid's apparent neglect in not coming on board. Violet would not have been bored if Mrs. Ratcliff had discoursed on the same topic all the way up to Shanghai, some three days or more. But the steamer gave first a pitch, and then a roll, and Chapel Island, outside the harbour, began to grow closer and closer.

"Goodbye, Violet. I'm off!"

And Mrs. Ratcliff clattered down the brass-bound companion, and, heedless of the terrific groans and unearthly sounds that came from her amah, already prostrate with sea-sickness, retired to the seclusion of her own cabin.

And Wilfrid Kennedy went his usual way, which no longer led him to the Commissioner's house. But he put Violet's photograph carefully away in his despatch-box, and wasn't quite such good company at a jamharree as of old. This fact he excused on the ground of his having been so many years out in China, and laughed at himself as requiring nothing but the sea-voyage to set himself to rights again. And the sea-voyage was only a few weeks off now.

They had a grand gathering the night before he went away, and the German Baron was in full form and voice. But when the time-honoured birthday song was proposed, for the first time since he had come to Amoy, Wilfrid Kennedy made himself disagreeable.

"I hate that song," he said, bluntly. "You all get fearfully flat, as flat as pancakes, in the chorus. If you sing it I shall go."

"You didn't object to it a little while ago," sneered the Baron, who was very angry at being charged with flatness. "And Miss Ratcliff, she liked it too!"

"That doesn't matter to me," Kennedy answered hotly. "If you will sing it, goodnight!"

And so they did not.

* * * * *

Mrs. Ratcliff had a busy time of it when she got back to Shanghai. First, she had to prepare for her summer trip to the sanatorium of China -- Chefoo -- which meant any amount of tailors, worry, vexation, stuffs spoiled, meals late, and abundance of strong language from Mr. Ratcliff. The going to Chefoo was a necessity, for Violet's sake. Violet who was losing all her pretty colour, and her appetite, and who seemed to care for nothing but just shutting herself up in her bedroom and reading poetry. Since she had come from Amoy, Violet had taken to reading Byron, not to speak of In Memoriam. In consequence of which absorption (for which, it is to be feared, Wilfrid Kennedy was responsible) Violet had become absolutely useless to her mother as regarded the criticism of clothes. She never seemed to know now whether the back of a bodice was crooked or straight, and could no longer be relied upon for the looping of skirts, or even the placing of bonnets. Never was mother more disappointed in a daughter.

And so they went to Chefoo, and Violet Ratcliff's colour came back a brick red, and her hands freckled, and her neck got scarecrowy. The air of, China certainly did not suit her.

But as she was the only girl in the Ratcliff "set" she had plenty of admirers, who were allowed to worship her from a distance. For Violet's destiny had long ago been fixed for her by her parents, in one memorable talk with her husband for which Mrs. Ratcliff had found time just before their daughter came out from home. Violet was to be married to one of Mr. Ratcliff's oldest friends, the taipan of- Davison, Arkwright and Co., the richest firm in the whole East, and that as soon as the summer was over.

It was a splendid match, in spite of the trifling circumstance that the bridegroom was older than the bride's father. He looked so, too; but then, as Mrs. Ratcliff explained to such of her acquaintances as required the explanation, Violet had never cared for young men, and was far more suited to an older man than to a "boy." To which declaration Violet herself fully agreed.

So there was a very grand wedding in Shanghai, at which Mrs. Ratcliff wore a dress made expressly for the occasion by Worth, and which cost a small fortune. Champagne flowed by the gallon, and the very Chinese servants became wasteful, and indifferent to the amount of pilfering done by "outside" men. And there was a long account of the whole concern in the London and China Telegraph, for the benefit of Mr. and Mrs. Ratcliff's and Mr. Davison's old friends and acquaintances at home.

But in the same paper, just underneath the official notice in the "Marriages" column, came another record. And when Violet cut out the announcement that concerned herself, the next one came out too.

"Kennedy -- Barnes. -- On December 1st, at the Abbey, Bath, Wilfrid Kennedy, I.M. Customs, China, to Louisa Ellen Barnes."

PART II.

CHAPTER I.

"Kennedy, just look in at that window!"

They had been working late hours in the Custom House at Shanghai, and Kennedy and his old chum Edwards had been kept on this particular evening up to eight o'clock. For Kennedy's two years' leave was over; and when he and his wife had reached Hongkong they had found orders awaiting them to proceed at once to Shanghai, where the Customs office was short-handed and business pressing. And thus it had come about that on the very next day after his arrival, and before he could look out for a house, far less unpack, Wilfrid had been obliged to spend all his time in the office, -- which was distinctly hard on him, but harder still on his wife. But then the Shanghai Commissioner was an ultra red-tape martinet, and an anti-English German to boot, while Kennedy was not a "fighting" man.

"Which window?" Wilfrid asked listlessly. He was dreadfully tired, and the motion of the steamer still seemed to jar in his head. He was wishing Edwards, good fellow though he was, anywhere, at the bottom of the river or up on the crosstrees of the British Consulate flag-staff, now at this moment, when the two had just come out into the sweltering steamy air of a Shanghai September night, and when he, Wilfrid, was going home to dine in the noisy stifling coffee-room of the hotel, where the occupants of the next table to his might be smoking, or staring, or . . . doing any one of those thousand and one things no dweller in the East dreams of being horrified at, but which ladies fresh from Bath take a little time to get accustomed to.

"Which window? Why, the one we are just passing. Look in, and you'll see a picture of domestic felicity."

And Wilfrid Kennedy looked as he was told, and saw: -- 

A large window, shaded by heavy handsome curtains, the curtains of a rich and prosperous hong. The window was wide open, and the room brilliantly lighted. It was a dining-room, and the master and the mistress of the house were sitting at dinner, one at each end of a long elaborately decorated table. They were quite alone, nor were there any signs of other guests having been expected. They had not yet finished their meal, but it was not what they were eating that was interesting Edwards, and to which he was drawing Wilfrid Kennedy's attention.

Before each of the two diners lay an open book, out of which they were complacently reading. They read as they ate, and when, on their laying down their knives and forks, their plates were swiftly changed by the "boys" in attendance, they still went on reading. Neither took the faintest notice of the other's presence.

Almost unconsciously, the two men outside had stood still to look in, and Kennedy had to pull his friend by the sleeve, lest perchance one of the two diners -- the husband it must have been, for he sat facing the window -- should see them. For the dining-room happened to be just at an angle of the house, which here touched the Bund, the great Shanghai Bund along the river.

"They are always like that," whispered Edwards as they moved slowly away. "Every time I pass that window, if they are at dinner, they are always reading. I've never once seen either of them take any notice of the other. How ghastly it must be for their digestions! -- or rather for Ids. I don't suppose Mrs. Davison is old enough to have a digestion yet."

"Who are they?" Kennedy asked with a sudden catch up of his breath. "What hong is it?"

"The Davisons of Davison Arkwright -- surely you know the hong? Didn't you notice it this morning? It's a magnificent house, built from a design by some swell architect. Ah, I forgot; you've never been stationed in Shanghai before. But you must have heard of old Davison, even if you haven't already heard of his wife. He married her two years ago, a girl young enough be his granddaughter. Surely you have heard the whole story? Mrs. Davison is a daughter of Mrs. Ratcliff that was, the Mrs. Ratcliff they used to call the beauty of China. Mrs. Davison, by the way, isn't a patch on her!"

"I have met them, both the mother and the daughter," Kennedy struck in. For though he felt a strong desire to get from his friend Edwards that fuller information which is the privilege of the stranger, it would not have been prudent to allow the impression to remain that he did not already know Mrs. Davison. "I met them in Amoy two years ago. They were staying with the Commissioner."

"Watkins, wasn't it? He comes into the story too. Mr. Ratcliff married his daughter to old Davison, and then went smash. What do you think of that? The old rogue must have known what was going to happen, and you may guess if Davison wasn't sold! For he was not a marrying man, you know, and it didn't suit his household arrangements at all to have a Ratcliff without a penny to her name on his hands. Well, Mrs. Ratcliff found out she must go home and see some aged aunt, or cousin, and who should escort her but Mr. Watkins? He had made his pile, had Watkins, so he resigned the service, and was just going to enjoy himself when he stupidly died, and left Mrs. Ratcliff everything. Old Ratcliff then went home; there was a grand reconciliation, and the two are living like fighting-cocks, they tell me, in the charming nest Watkins had prepared for himself. Upon my word, Kennedy, the cheek some people have!" Here he put his head closer to Wilfrid's, and imparted some items of Club "gup" which would have scandalised horribly more liberal-minded ladies than Mrs. Wilfrid Kennedy, for instance.

"But all this has nothing to do with Mrs. Davison, has it? What do people say of her?"

A very rash question this was, as Wilfrid knew even before the answer came. What could that answer be but a painful one, in view of that window? And Kennedy disliked pain, mental or otherwise, even more than he disliked hard work.

"Mrs. Davison? Oh, she's just such another as her mother, or will be in time. But there's some excuse for her, -- tied, sold if you like it, to that pompous old beast. He used to be a very well known figure in certain walks of society in Shanghai. Mrs. Davison doesn't waste her time in being agreeable to him, does she? But the saying goes that she only married Davison because she was jilted, or something of the kind. At any rate there's no doubt that she has made no pretence of loving her husband, either when she was married or since. In love with some one else; the old yarn! No, she isn't very popular, not nearly so popular as her mother used to be. As for him, he's a stuck-up old idiot. I'd Hke to have the kicking of him!"

This idea was probably suggested to Edwards' mind by a jinricksha coolie who had just dropped the shafts of his vehicle invitingly but perilously across his path. In the absence of Mr. Davison, the young man contented himself with administering a sound kick to the Celestial, after which he cheerfully bade Kennedy goodnight.

And Wilfrid took a few steps more in the direction of his hotel. Then he turned sharp round, and walked straight back towards the Custom House, until he came to that dining-room window.

He had two reasons for taking this extra walk. First, his head ached; and second, he wanted to look at Violet Davison all by himself. And this might be the only available opportunity for some time to come.

They had finished dinner now, and Mr. Davison, the "pompous old beast," was abandoning himself to an enormous cheroot in in a very large armchair. There was a good deal of him to abandon, and he was doing so in a comfortable but distinctly inelegant fashion. For the rest, he looked the typical taipan of the good old days, with a bald shining head, a good breadth of waistcoat, and a short thick red neck suggestive of apoplexy. Clearly not a husband to fall desperately in love with; clearly not such a husband as his own wife ought to have chosen.

His wife! -- was she indeed the Violet Ratcliff he had known, and remembered too, all these years, as without any exception the very nicest girl he had ever met, the only girl, indeed woman, who was worth remembering? Was he really looking at her face now?

For Mrs. Davison's face was no longer hidden from view. She was standing close to the window, so close that if she had only looked down, and perhaps back in her memory, she must have recognised her old friend.

But, how the two years had changed her! How ill, how worn she looked! The healthy colour was gone, the roundness of the face and figure, with the "school-girlishness" of the Amoy days. Mrs. Davison had perhaps gained dignity from being a taipan's wife, for at any rate she looked self-reliant and determined. But to Wilfrid Kennedy's eyes she also looked miserable.

And he stood there, and gazed, and took in with a sorrowful surprise that the Violet Ratcliff of his recollection was something past and dead, and that the Violet Davison he was going to know might be very charming, very friendly, but must stand on a footing quite different from that of old days. And he thought, in his mind, as he slowly turned homewards, that it was altogether a mistake ever again to come across some one who has made a great impression on you in past years. For it is pitiful to see, or to fancy one sees, that as regards happiness, if not looks, Time does not always "bear gently on those we love."

CHAPTER II.

"Mr. Kennedy, you are a nice one! Actually going to cut me, an old acquaintance!"

It was a few days after the Kennedys' arrival in Shanghai, and just after office hours. And it was Mrs. Denman of Amoy fame who was barring Wilfrid's way. She was coming straight out of the Astor House where she had, presumably, just been to call upon Wilfrid's wife. For the Kennedys were still in that most miserable strait betwixt two, vulgarly called living in boxes, though the move into their own house was to come off before very long.

But, though Wilfrid of course knew the Denmans were now stationed in Shanghai, as he could not help knowing when he saw Mr. Denman every day at the Custom House, he had failed to notice the smart little brougham with the mafoos in official caps drawn up at the hotel gate. He had, moreover, failed to notice the elegant little lady with the fluffy golden hair and (alas for English complexions!) powdered face, who was coming out of the porch, tinkling, by reason of her many bracelets, like the apostolic cymbal, the admired of a group of American "globetrotters" just outside the central door of the hotel.

"Mrs, Denman! I beg your pardon! I didn't recognise you!"

"That's not very complimentary," laughed Mrs. Denman, keeping her position in the middle of the path. "But I suppose I must have changed in these two years or more since we met. Heighho! we're all growing old! All except you, Mr. Kennedy, you've grown younger since you were married!"

Lucky for Mrs. Denman that she had got the name for saying the most ill-timed things without ever meaning them! Lucky, too, that she was saying them to Wilfrid Kennedy without any witnesses present. Even he, good-natured fellow though he was, felt himself flushing up as Mrs. Denman went on to say: -- 

"I've just been to call on your wife. Of course I was dying to see her directly I heard yon were coming to Shanghai. I wanted to know what kind of a wife a man like you would choose, because in Amoy we all thought -- But no matter!"

Mrs. Denman suddenly checked herself and realised that she was the cynosure of the porch. She moved slowly towards her brougham.

"I wanted to see you as well as Mrs. Kennedy," she said. "You ought to have come in sooner. I want you to come to see me and have a chat about old times. There are some old friends in Shanghai, too, do you know that? When will you come? Say to tiffin on Sunday; I'll write Mrs. Kennedy a chit. Tiffin at 12 sharp, and we can talk afterwards."

A very ordinary China coast invitation, seeing Sunday was the only free day for the Customs staff. What then was Mrs. Denman's astonishment when Wilfrid answered, in an exceedingly embarrassed voice:

"Thank you very much, but I'm afraid we can't come. The fact of the matter is, my wife won't go anywhere on Sunday!"

Mrs. Denman was so amazed that she blurted out: -- 

"You don't mean to say you've married a missionary?"

Judging by the expression on her countenance, missionary and leper were about synonymous to Mrs. Denman.

"Oh no, she isn't a missionary," Wilfrid tried to explain. "Only she's been brought up very religiously (I was too, you know), and has still got home-views on the Sabbath. She'll lose them in time, but not quite at first. And I don't want you to shock her, Mrs. Denman, You've often shocked me, you remember!"

Which winding-up gratified Mrs. Denman immensely, and sent her off in the most friendly of moods towards Wilfrid. She smiled and nodded to him out of the carriage window as long as she could see him, -- and then threw herself back in her seat and mentally contemplated the situation which had just been placed before her.

What a curious, ill-assorted marriage this must be, to be sure, the more you looked into it! Mrs. Denman had of course seen the announcement in the newspapers, and had lamented the fact before she had any reason for so doing, -- simply because it upset a nice little romance she had woven in her brain. Then the Denmans had been ordered to Shanghai, and there Mrs. Denman had been thrown a good deal together with Violet Davison, who, poor girl, wanted a woman-friend badly in her new life.

Violet Davison, as a rich merchant's wife, was of course one of the leaders of Shanghai society. In that exclusive "upper ten" she now moved, which barely knew of the existence of a Deputy-Commissioner of Customs, and for which, in those good old golden days, Consular and Customs Assistants were naught and as the small dust of the balance. A pompous, interminably lengthy-dinnered, mentally-empty set they were, those taipans, who thought the world existed for their benefit alone, and that to take a lady down to dinner and to address an occasional platitude to her -- only and solely in between the courses -- was the greatest honour that lady could receive. But the world of Shanghai took them at their own valuation, and Mrs. Denman was cordially hated by all those who were not so fortunate as to be admitted within the sacred circle.

Mrs. Denman's friendship with Violet Davison, which had somewhat astonished Mr. Davison at first, was really the most natural thing in the world. There was something in the Deputy-Commissioner's wife which invited confidences, even though the confiding party knew that what she was so foolish as to tell would certainly not remain locked up within Mrs. Denman's breast. Violet was one of those wholly unself-controlled girls who cannot keep their grievances to themselves. Her early married life was one of rude disillusionment, and when at the age of five months her baby died, and Mrs. Denman came to sympathise and lament with and console her, Violet completely broke down. Secrets that were, alas! no secrets to the rest of Shanghai, but which a proud wife should have held up as a barrier between the mocking world and herself -- these came out; and with these secrets of her married life a half-confession of her girlish days. There was such a relief, such a feeling akin to joy, in saying once more a name which pride had never let her say before, in explaining how she alone was responsible for what Mrs. Denman had actually called to her face, -- to Violet's, who had told him to go, -- Wilfrid's desertion I Even the after-reproaches of prudence, that by speaking as she had done "she had put herself into Mrs. Denman's power, were silenced by a remembrance of the satisfaction it had been to watch the changes, from interest to astonishment, from astonishment to the tears of over-wrought feeling, in Mrs. Denman's face.

And for once Mrs. Denman had held her tongue, and kept Violet's secret. Indeed, she did not consider the story Violet had told her worth retailing, since Mrs. Davison would probably have half-a-dozen such experiences in half that number of years, and coupled with Shanghai names also, -- which would be far more interesting to the people of that Model Settlement.

Mrs. Denman had in general a very small opinion of the constancy of women's affections. On at least five separate occasions she had been firmly convinced that she herself and some particularly intimate chum of her husband's were about to figure in the newspapers. And the sequel to such imaginations had invariably been some utterly commonplace drifting apart, such as a transfer to another port, the advent of another rival, male or female, the getting tired of each other, etc. etc. Taught by these experiences, Mrs. Denman had at length arrived at the conclusion that her own husband, a big, hulking, good-natured fellow over six feet, was as good as any other man, -- in short, that all men were so alike that there was no palpable advantage to be got out of a change of spouse. Violet would doubtless have her five, maybe her six or seven, occasions of falling in love. The Kennedy episode was the first, but it would distinctly not be the last. Her last love must be, if not Mr. Davison himself, at any rate his comfortable establishment.

Still, when Mrs. Denman heard of the Kennedys' arrival, and still more, when she saw what Mrs. Kennedy was like, she certainly scented possible complications ahead. That is, she felt convinced that what Violet had told her about Wilfrid's confession in Amoy had been true (of the details of which confession she had naturally been sceptical up to the present time); and, furthermore, that there must be a distinct incompatibility of temperament between Wilfrid and his wife.

"A prim old maid, who won't see forty in a hurry again," Mrs. Denman summed Mrs. Kennedy up. "That boy, that child, tied to her for life! Truly money is the root of all vil!"

And to guard against the possible effiects of that evil, Mrs. Denman stopped her carriage at the most fashionable store in the place, and relieved her mind by adding several items to her already heavy bill.

But she could not altogether banish the thought of "that boy" and his "missionary-looking" wife. Mrs. Denman had always felt it to be her mission in life to afford relief to distressed partners in matrimony. Was the husband the aggrieved party? She allowed him to fall love with herself. Was it the wife? She must be thrown together with some trusted friend of the male persuasion with whom she might strike up a Platonic friendship. But as regarded Violet Davison and Wilfrid Kennedy, would it be wise, would it be even safe, to put them together? Mrs. Denman tried hard to think "yes "; but she was not altogether easy on the subject in her own mind by the time she reached home.

And Wilfrid Kennedy went up the stairs and into his own room with a light heart. He had made the plunge, and had asserted his true position with his old acquaintances. It would have been easy enough to have made an excuse for this one Sunday tiffin; in olden times Wilfrid most assuredly would have done so. But, how much easier would life be for him now that he had spoken out! No one would titter when they saw him carrying his wife's prayer-book to Church next Sunday. They would have done their tittering in the week, when -- 

"How late you are, Wilfrid! You promised to be home at a quarter past four, and it is a quarter to five! I have been watching you for the last ten minutes talking to that -- what's her name? -- Mrs. Denman. I cannot think how any one making a pretence to be a lady can go about dressed as she is, and stand and talk where everybody is staring at her. What an example to the heathen round her! No wonder they think their worship of idols is better than our religion, since the English ladies in China are their specimens of Christian women! Poor women, indeed! with no thought beyond dress, no conversation but balls!"

Mrs. Kennedy spoke rather loud, as though she was addressing a large audience. This inconvenient habit had grown upon her during the last few years of her maiden life, and its cause had been the deafness of both her parents. Still it was very mortifying to Wilfrid to now feel certain that every word had been heard, and that every dangerous comment on Mrs. Denman would probably be treasured up for future repetition by that arrant gossip Tom Edwards, who had followed him up the stairs, and who now stood at the door awaiting permission to enter to pay his duty-call.

CHAPTER III.

"Flossie, who is that awful frump sitting in the second row, next to the Commissioner? No, on the other side. Who can she be? I don't know the face at all."

The Davisons were, of course, occupying the best box at the Lyceum at the first performance of an especially strong theatrical troupe which was passing through Shanghai. And there, in front of the box, Violet Davison and her friend Mrs. Denman were quizzing the people down below them, to the great delight of two youthful swains in close attendance. Mr. Davison, in a stiff white waistcoat of prodigious latitude, sat in the centre of the box, condescension to the stage and to society in general radiating from him in all directions. Mr. Denman was smoking a cigar outside.

"That? oh, don't you know? It's the bride, the wife of Wilfrid Kennedy of our service."

Violet's face had flushed crimson, and she hastily put up her opera-glasses again, as if to take a good look at the unconscious stranger. But her hand shook ominously, and Mrs. Denman was not astonished to see her put the glasses down, carelessly, right on the ledge of the box, plant her elbows, and give herself up to a long and steady stare at the second row of stalls.

Yes, Mrs. Kennedy did look a frump. She was dressed -- and this in the days when all the world wore frills, furbelows, and ornaments -- in a most unbecomingly simple manner. Small wonder Mrs. Denman had set her down as a missionary. Her hair, sandy and painfully, i.e. stickily, smooth, was plastered over her ears and then screwed into the most diminutive "Grecian" knot behind. Her dress, of plainest black silk, was ornamented simply by a huge black enamel locket, of the warming-pan type, fastened round her neck with narrow purple ribbons, which fell down her back considerably below her waist. A. regular old maid.

As yet her face was invisible; for, although the performance had not yet begun, she kept her eyes rigidly fixed on the drop-curtain. Violet took up the glasses again, and looked along the row.

There he was, sitting quite at the end, looking vacantly round the gallery. He had begun at the opposite end to Violet's box, and was working his way towards it. Changed was he? Yes, surely; but not for the better. He was not so trim as he used to be; he looked discontented; he looked infinitely tired. He was paying no attention to what his neighbour, a fashionably dressed young matron, was saying to him. No, he certainly did not look happy; and Violet felt actually glad he did not.

And then, just at that moment, just as his eyes were reaching her box, the orchestra struck up "We met, 'twas in a crowd," and Violet's opera-glasses fell from her hands down, right down among the people who were sitting below. And at the crash Mrs. Kennedy turned her head.

Hers was by no means an unpleasant, though it was an unsympathetic face. It was round and fairly plump, though candour forces the admission that when Mrs. Denman compared her complexion with the rind of a pumelo, and the consistency of her cheeks with an over-ripe persimmon, she did not greatly overshoot the mark. The expression of this distinctly homely countenance, in which both eyes and nose were quite unimportant landmarks, was that of resigned martyrdom. Mrs. Kennedy evidently had not come to the theatre to enjoy herself. (As a matter of fact, she was there under a mistake, and solely as the Commissioner's dinner-guest.)

All this Violet missed, all, everything and everybody, in the new and curious sensation that seized her, and made her lose, for the time being, all consciousness of her surroundings. Wilfrid Kennedy's eyes were fixed on her, as were those of the whole theatre. But the look in his eyes was one she saw nowhere felse, and it only lasted a short part of a minute. But Mrs. Denman caught it as well, and she hastily bent forward and whispered to her friend: -- 

"Everyone is looking at you, Violet."

The warning was enough. Wilfrid Kennedy did not manage to catch Violet's eye agaifl all that evening.

CHAPTER IV.

"I am going to call on the Kennedys, Flossie."

"No, don't. I beg you not to, Violet."

Violet had come in for a quiet cup of tea and chat with her friend. Mrs. Denman had issued orders of "No got" to the boy, -- very necessary orders, as the almost continuous stopping of carriages and ringing of the doorbell shewed. The Denmans were popular in Shanghai, although Mr. Watkins' old designation of Flossie as "giggling goose" still clung to that little lady.

"Why not?"

A, for Violet, wonderfully disingenuous question, to which she already knew the answer, an answer she was not likely to get out of Mrs. Denman.

"You will make a very great mistake if yon try to cultivate Mrs. Kennedy," Flossie Denman answered. "She is really a terrible woman! She's frightfully religious, and has come to China with the intention of converting all the natives at one fell swoop. I believe she's got serious designs on the Emperor's seraglio, not to say his heart! And so, of course, she wouldn't have anything to do with us worldly people. You should have heard Tom Edwards imitating her going for me -- poor, innocent, harmless ME -- to her own meek goose of a husband. Tom heard it all the other side of the street, for she bawls, my dear. Now, don't call on her; she'll ask you about your soul. Why, she even tackled the Commissioner!"

"Well, I don't expect she got much out of him," Violet remarked languidly. "She must be rather amusing, I think. But can't her husband keep her in order?"

"Mr. Kennedy? You know him of old; he could never say Bo to a goose! I've no patience with that kind of man! A man who lets himself be made the laughing-stock of all' Shanghai, and why? Simply because slie holds the purse-strings, and he hasn't a cent to bless himself with. Went home over head and ears in debt, married for money, and hasn't begun to pay up yet. A most contemptible man!"

Mrs. Denman kept her face steadily turned away until just towards the end of her speech. Then she stole a glance out of the corner of one eye at Violet, to see the effect she had produced. Not the right one, alas! Violet was impatiently biting her under lip, and one foot was restlessly beating time, swinging in the air just above the fender. These signs might have stood for disgust and disappointment in any one else; but they did not in the present case. For down the cheek that was nearest to Mrs. Denman there was stealing -- was it possible? -- a tear.

Mrs. Denman was angry. Violet was quite too ridiculous about this man. She took up her parable again.

"If you called and became intimate with them (which you couldn't do without mortally offending the Rodneys, and the Harrisons, and the de Clancys, who are all senior to Mr. Kennedy in the service, and on whom you never called), you would have to invite these Kennedys and they would invite you back. Fancy Mr. Davison at their house! No wine on the table; only tea to drink. The minute after tea, if you please, out comes the Bible, each one is made to read a verse round, and then come prayers. Positively, that's what happened to Mr. Edwards when Mr. Kennedy invited tim in to potluck. He told me he was so faint, so thirsty, and so stiff he could scarcely drag his limbs home!"

"Haven't you got any better authority than Mr. Edwards?" Violet asked sarcastically. "I wonder how he describes other people's entertainments!"

Mrs. Denman made no answer. She was, in truth, flabbergasted at Violet's retort.

"Flossie," Violet said suddenly, bending over and laying her hand caressingly on Mrs. Denman's knee, "you haven't convinced me; you can't convince me. Why is he so weak, so, what you call contemptible? I know; I can understand it. And if this silly, foolish woman is estranging all his friends, and making his life a misery to him, am I, who was his iirst friend, who knew all his secrets, am I going to stand by and not give him a helping hand? No, ten thousand times no! If all you say is true (and I had heard most of it already), then he wants all the comfort he can get from knowing I have not changed. For his sake, I will make a friend of his wife!"

"You are absolutely cracked, Violet," Mrs. Denman calmly replied, "and, what is more, you are dangerously cracked. You delude yourself into the idea that to know you will have a soothing effect on Wilfrid Kennedy's poor tried nerves. It can only have one effect, if you go into this concern with your head so completely on fire. That's a bad one. I don't need to explain it to you."

"You mean," Violet answered, "that Mrs. Kennedy will be jealous of me. But she won't be. I shan't clash with her in the least. You'll see; I shall come out of this all right!"

"But I'm not thinking of Mrs. Kennedy!" urged Mrs. Denman. "You couldn't move her one way or another so as to affect my peace of mind. But, to be frank with you, Violet, what will you do if Mr. Kennedy won't go back to the old conditions, if he is afraid of making a friend of you, lest he should again fall in love with you? For he was in love, and you know it. That's one possibility you have got to face. Or, suppose he does go back, and consults you and confides in you again, and ends by falling in love with you, -- what will you do then.''"

"I'll think about those things when the time arrives!" Violet answered evasively. "But you must help me, Flossie. You must take me to call on this dragon. When will you go?"

"Have you asked Mr. Davison's leave yet?"

"Ask his leave?" Violet said scornfully. "Do I ever ask his leave? When do I ever see him, or wish to see him, to ask? You know quite well we have agreed never to see each other except at meals or in company. No; he goes his own way, and I mean to go mine."

"Hoity-toity! my lady is on her high horse!" But even as Mrs. Denman uttered these words, her heart smote her, and by the very decided way in which she blew her nose, and then clattered the tea-cups, Violet knew that there was no further need for argument.

CHAPTER V.

"Whose writing is that, Louisa?"

Wilfrid knew very well whose it was all the time. He had often seen it before; he had even got a specimen of it locked away in his despatch box.

Mrs. Kennedy was wrestling with her house-accounts, and so was in a bad temper. It is the destiny, not to be evaded by any housekeeper in the East, of the foreign mistress to be "squeezed" by her servants. That means, the native servants in each household make up their minds that so much of their masters' income is to find its way into their own pockets. And find its way it will, whether the master lives in luxury or in poverty-stricken destitutioa of the good things of this life. Appreciating which fact, the worldly-wise among the foreign ladies insist on their servants providing them with the best of everything. Nor do they spend a cent more, according to their means, than do other ladies in their own station of life who diligently enquire into last day's potatoes, amounts of sugar, butter, or who buy their fish and game at its real market value.

But Mrs. Kennedy disapproved of "squeezes"; and, under the guidance of one of the crack housekeepers of Shanghai, had found out all about market prices, and was determined to pay no more than what was just and lawful. The Kennedy servants, however, knew how to deal with a recalcitrant housekeeper like their mistress. The boy's accounts lay before her now, totalling up to an unjust amount, under such items as "brooms," "mend-buckets," and "firewood" in sufficient quantity to stock an entire shop. And when the existence of these articles was challenged, they had all, wonderful to say, been produced, and now lay piled up, a most unsightly mass, in the very middle of the drawing-room floor.

"Whose writing? I don't remember. Look at the note for yourself."

Mrs. Kennedy did not waste her time in being courteous to her husband. It was so difficult for her to realise how changed their relations to each other were since the days when Wilfrid was a little boy and she a grown-up young lady! So difficult to realise that, though he was so much younger than she was, yet he was her husband, and as such might shake off her unlawful authority some day. And what a day would that be, in the case of a nature like Wilfrid's! She was drawing the rein even now dangerously tight.

"Have you answered this chit, Louisa?"

"Of course I have," she answered testily. "I wish you wouldn't come and ask me questions when you see I am busy! By the way, Wilfrid, you must send away the boy. I simply refuse to keep him any longer. When you were so late coming home last night I went down into the cookhouse, and there I found a crowd of Chinese all busy over some idolatrous rites. They were making some horrible sticky sort of paste on my beautiful new pastryboard, for their idols to eat, if you please. Of course I said it must be all thrown away. And the hoy refused to do so! He said: -- 'Chinaman one year one time must makey so fashion.' Well, if he must, he shan't do it here, and so I told him. And he actually answered me: -- 'Master savvey what thing!' I've slept over the matter, and now I've made up my mind. You must dismiss the boy."

He was Wilfrid's last and only link with the old life, this boy who had lived with him in all the bad, unhealthy ports he had ever been stationed in, and who had so often tended him when he was sick. He had been doomed for some weeks, Wilfrid knew; and probably there was a smug-faced, oily-mouthed protdgdoi some friend of Mrs. Kennedy ready to step into his billet. What was the use of defending this Chinaman any more? Bachelors' boys never do manage to get on with a foreign lady in the house.

"Very well, Louisa. Did you accept this invitation?"

"Mrs. Davison's invitation? No, I didn't. I refused it."

Mrs. Kennedy had a peculiar way of pursing up her lips when a dangerous topic was being touched upon. Her lips were pursed up now.

"Any reason?" Wilfrid asked carelessly. "I thought you told me the other day, after she had called, that you liked Mrs. Davison very much, and that"

"Well, what else did I say?" demanded Mrs. Kennedy, fixing her eyes on her husband's face.

"I don't remember exactly," Wilfrid answered a little hotly. "But what have you got against her now? She's the wife of the leading man in Shanghai, and she goes out of her way to call on you, and then to invite you to dinner. May I ask why, without even consulting me, you have refused?"

"I would rather not give you my reasons, Wilfrid; but I have them, and if you insist on it, I will give them. But I'd rather not continue the subject."

Mrs. Kennedy got up from her writing-table, and seated herself in a comfortable armchair near the fire, all ready to be asked. In truth, she had foreseen this episode, and had left the chit lying about in order to attract Wilfrid's attention.

"I do insist, Louisa."

For one short moment Mrs. Kennedy looked up at him in what was astonishment. She did not know that voice; but the look reassured her. Wilfrid's eyes were as soft, as submissive, she thought, as ever.

But she did not know what words, ringing in his ears still, were calling up that soft look. They were Violet's words, when he had taken her out to her carriage after her first call.

"I hope your wife will like me, Mr. Kennedy. She looks so good, and I want her dreadfully to be friends with me!"

And he had gone back, with a delicious warmth at his heart, and had repeated them to his wife, and she had smiled, and looked pleased. What had come now?

"I will not go to the house of any woman, I will not accept her hospitality, I will have nothing to do with her, -- so long as she is living in open sin!"

"In open sin? Mrs. Davison living in open sin? What do you mean, Louisa?"

The idea was too utterly ludicrous, absurd even beyond a laugh. Wilfrid felt a great weight lifted from his heart. His wife evidently had no glimmering of what might have proved an objection, -- his old acquaintance with Violet.

But Mrs. Kennedy pursed up her lips tighter.

"What tag-end of gossip have you got? Who put such an idea into your head? Is that your Christianity, to believe lies about people?"

Wilfrid was getting angry now, and was not stopping to measure his words.

"Explain yourself, Louisa, if you make accusations against my friends."

Ah! there the point came in: she was his friend. Mrs. Kennedy was already hiilf-suspecting that would-be friend of hers: her old-maidish prudery, which but thinly concealed her old-maidish love for dubious stories, was flung aside at once.

"No, it was none of my Christian friends, as you sneeringly call them, who told me of your 'friend.' They, forsooth, are not good enough for her, I suppose, and they don't trouble to speak, far less think of her. It was Mrs. Davison's own particular friend, Mrs. Denman, who told me, and told me not as against Mrs. Davison at all. On the contrary, she looks upon her as a martyr. A martyr, with carriages and horses, and luxury, -- the wages of sin forsooth!"

Mrs. Kennedy seized the poker, and stirred the fire as viciously as though she was performing the task for Violet's spirit in the Chinese Purgatory.

"What was it Mrs. Denman told you?"

Again Mrs. Kennedy stole a look at Wilfrid. But he had turned his back on her, and was examining the blotting-book on the writing-table.

"She told me that Mrs. Davison's had been a most miserable marriage, that she had been forced into it before she was old enough to know her own mind. And, could you believe it, this Mr. Davison, this great merchant, is in reality, and has always been, a most abandoned, sinful man? The life he led before his marriage it made me blush to hear of. I am sure, quite sure, that if only half of what Mrs. Denman said is true, he would never be received into respectable society at home. It must be only because he is so rich that he is not cut by the whole commxmity here!"

There was absolute triumph in Mrs. Kennedy's voice. She did not wait for comment from Wilfrid, but went on: -- 

"And I do not pity a woman who, knowing her husband is what Mr. Davison is, knowing his past, and his present too, yet goes on living in his house, despising and hating him all the time. And so I told Mrs. Denman quite straight. And what was her excuse for having told me all these horrible particulars? That she had only done so to let me see how deeply Mrs. Davison was to be pitied, in spite of all her wealth, and to make me take an interest in her I 'Interest? Mrs. Denman?' I answered, 'How can I take any interest in her now? To my mind Mrs. Davison has a plain duty before her, and she shrinks from doing it. As long as she lives with her husband, she tacitly consents to his life, past and present. She ought to leave him, and go back to her father's house.' 'How can she?' Mrs. Denman said, 'She's his wife. She must stay with him. Her own parents are thousands of miles away. And you are wrong in judging so hardly of Mr. Davison. He's no worse than heaps of others, as you ought to know.' 'I only judge by what you yourself have told me,' I said, 'and my judgment is that Mrs. Davison is wrong, and if she asks me I shall tell her so. And she said -- '

Was it a groan that came from the writing - table? Mrs. Kennedy shifted her chair uneasily. And just then Wilfrid stood up and came to the fire.

"And so, because Mr. Davison makes his wife's life miserable, you refuse your friendship to a girl who has done you the kindness to offer you hers!"

Unwise words and unwise scorn! Mrs. Kennedy was ready for the fight at once.

"You may call things by wrong names as much as you like!" she retorted, "but you can't blind my eyes to what is right and to what is downright wrong! I feel, I know, Mrs. Davison is not a fit person for me to make a friend of, and so I intend to have nothing to do with her at all. I don't change my principles because I happen to live in China instead of in England."

"And have you told Mrs. Davison all this? Or have you left her friend, Mrs. Denman, to tell her?"

The withering contempt in Wilfrid's voice was too much for Mrs. Kennedy's temper.

"I will not stand this cross-examination any more!" she cried angrily, her lips trembling with passion. "Find out for yourself if you want to know!"

And then, to her utter amazement, Wilfrid answered: -- 

"I will."

He had gone out of the drawing-room and out of the house before she had sufficiently recovered to call him back. And though she tried to think this was only a vague threat, and that his going only meant it was office-time (which she knew it was not), yet she felt uncomfortable all the rest of the afternoon with a shadowy suspicion that she had somehow or other gone too far. Nor did Wilfrid's reappearance, not very far from his usual time, satisfy her. For he merely came to tell her he was dining that evening at the Club, having to attend an important Committee meeting there afterwards.

Mrs. Kennedy had never dined alone before. But this first solitary meal was not destined to be the last.

CHAPTER VI.

Never, in all his life, from his earliest years up, had Wilfrid Kennedy been so utterly angry as he was when he left his house that afternoon.

He was angry beyond control, either of words or of deeds. He could not have trusted himself to listen to that loud self-righteous voice a moment longer. What manner of woman was this he had married?

He forgot, utterly forgot, his wife's total ignorance of the wicked ways of the great world, quite forgot that she had been brought up amongst those who, never having been tried themselves, have no sympathy with the temptations of others. He could not think of an excuse for her; indeed he did not want to think of her at all. There was no room in his thoughts for any one but Violet, poor, poor Violet, to whom life had been nothing but a great disillusioning, from whom everything good had been taken away, and whom, instead of pitying, his own wife condemned, and condemned for the very reason she should have pitied her.

How could Mrs. Denman, Violet's friend, have made such a frightful mistake as to tell Mrs. Kennedy anything about Violet's inner life? And how was Wilfrid going to make the wrong right.

What wrong, indeed? Now that his anger was dying away into this great pity for Violet, Wilfrid could begin to reason clearly, and it did not take very long for him to feel convinced that as yet Mrs. Kennedy could scarcely have done much harm. She might have, possibly, worded her refusal of Mrs. Davison's invitation ungraciously, but she could hardly have given any reasons for refusing. Mrs. Denman -- truly a goose, and a cackling, mischievous one too -- , was she likely to repeat that conversation he had just heard? No, ten thousand times no!

The danger was all ahead, and Wilfrid's course was clear. It was to warn Violet to keep out of his wife's way. They need never meet again; Shanghai was large enough for that. He must keep them apart, even though this meant keeping himself apart also.

And he must lose no time over giving his warning. He would see either Violet or Mrs. Denman that very afternoon, after office-hours.

It was very nearly office-time now, and he had been walking in an opposite direction to the Custom House. He must get back to it as soon as he could. Which was the shortest way?

Here he was, dose to the (then) Cemetery gate. Through it Jay his shortest way. Kennedy pushed the gate open, and walked in.

How quiet it all was in here, passing in from the noise and din of the busy street! The coolies grunting to each other as they carried their loads down towards the Bund; the squeaking of the ungreased wheelbarrows; the wrangling of two shrill-voiced women close outside; -- all seemed to melt away into a single clash of sound, in which Wilfrid had no longer share or part. He, in the world, was outside the world,, there, amongst those trees, amongst those sleepers, the very remembrance of whom had mostly faded away.


Only mostly, though. Here was one grave, one tiny grave, that was being tended even then. It did not lie near the main path, but near that side one he had chosen. It was a child's grave, and the child's mother was bending over it.

The very woman, too, he had to seek, to find, and to warn against his own wife I How could he do so here, in this most sacred spot in all the world to her? Wilfrid turned on his heel, trying to beat a retreat as softly as possible. Alas for badly-seasoned boots I There was a most hideous squeak, and Violet had caught sight of him.

"Mr. Kennedy! Mr. Kennedy! I wanted to see you so much!"

All the colour left Wilfrid's face as a horrible fear sprang up in him. Was he then too late? Had she heard already?

Violet had risen from her knees, and came straight up to him.

"Mr. Kennedy," she said, and then stopped. What she had to say was evidently difficult, for she nervously twisted her bracelet (the old Chinese golden rope that he remembered so well) round and round.

"Mr. Kennedy, Mrs. Denman has told me -- "

"Has told you," Wilfrid broke in, "what I don't think, and never have thought, and never can think! No, nor any one else whose opinion is worth having! But why did she tell you? I wanted to spare you this."

"You couldn't," Violet answered sadly. "I must have known it sooner or later. But you know me better!" she cried out, lifting her eyes suddenly to his face. "You believe in me always, don't you?"

Why did not the sky suddenly fall, or the ground open under their feet, or Providence, so ready to interfere when not wanted, separate those two at that moment? For with Violet's eyes, all full of unshed tears, and Violet's pretty lips quivering, and with the unguardedness of spirit his great anger had left in Wilfrid, there was only one answer possible to that question. And it was an answer that did not need to be expressed in words.

"Believe in you, darling? I only wish I were able not to believe, -- not to think and dream of you every day, every night, ever since I first knew you!"

It was all out before he could stop himself, whispered into her ear with his arm round her neck. How sweet it was to touch her! Wilfrid forgot whether it was wrong, forgot where he was, forgot all his obligations, forgot even the possible presence of coolies, fellow-citizens, servants and all. The only thing he was conscious of was that the lips he was kissing were Violet's, and that she was as much his own in heart as though they two were free, with the whole wide world and life before them.

CHAPTER VII.

Where indeed was the wrong in it all?

Mrs. Denman had argued the whole matter out to herself, and she could not see where it lay. Conventionally, socially, she admitted, Wilfrid and Violet were very wrong -- unjustifiable. But morally, as before that higher tribunal of right and wrong where Mrs. Denman's affections and prejudices sat as judges, the two were absolved.

Mr. Kennedy had a most objectionable wife, an odious woman, who made his life a misery to him. It was unreasonable to expect him to put up with her ways; so he was justified in striking out into a new path for himself. Mrs. Davison had a husband for whom she had never cared a rap, and who was really a wicked old man. She was justified too, so long as the affair did not come to a scandal.

And there was no reason it should. Shanghai is a place where people are so busy with their own concerns that they have very little time left for discussing their neighbours'. That is done by the Chinese servants, undoubtedly; and it might have been edifying to know what Mrs. Davison's amah and Mr. Kennedy's coolie, who were near relatives, said to each other as they received or forwarded the daily chits that passed between their employers. It probably did not escape the all-noting, though apparently nought-seeing, eye of the gate-keeper at Mr. Davison's hong that these chits passed in a chit-case, from which the paper containing name of the receiver could easily be removed, and not in the tell-tale ordinary correspondence book, wherein letters to such a friend as Mrs. Denman were recorded. But what did it matter, what the Chinese thought or said, so long as the parties concerned knew it not?

Just at first Wilfrid and Violet were careful, and beyond the daily chits, confined themselves to chance meetings, and "accidental" coincidences in the matter of choosing the same afternoon to drop in at Mrs. Denman's house for tea. For Mrs. Denman had to be let into their confidence, if only to get her to hold her tongue. And Flossie had sighed, and had shaken her head wisely once or twice, and then had remembered her own two little fluffy-haired daughters, and how fond Mr. Kennedy was of children, and how Mrs. Kennedy hated them. What this remetttbrance had to do with the case in point it is impossible to explain, but it sufficed for Mrs. Denman.

But, as the weeks passed away, and the winter gradually grew to an end, chits and chance meetings were voted "not good enough." The days on which those chance meetings came off were good enough certainly; but those days on which the two did not meet were quite too bad. These were the days "when Wilfrid discovered he must take a constitutional, as hard as he could, at a pace which was utterly impossible for Mrs. Kennedy, along some distant road. How was she to know this road was only a few yards off, on the Shanghai Race Course, and that the walk only meant a saunter with Violet on the far side of it, away from the main road? Or how was she to know that everybody in Shanghai knew it -- everybody but herself and Mr. Davison?

That Wilfrid had deserted her, that he no longer went with her to missionary meetings, that he went to a great many bachelor dinners, and came home very late from the office every day, were of course bitter facts soon forced upon her. And, devoted as she really was to her husband -- with an unpleasant enough, selfish devotion it may be, but at any rate with a loyal devotion -- , Mrs. Kennedy suffered untold pangs of hopeless jealousy. She was far too proud to complain of Wilfrid's conduct to herself, much less suffer any one else to blame him. When one of her special friends mentioned his name, Mrs. Kennedy would instantly freeze up with an awful frost. She knew, or rather fancied she knew, why she was no longer her husband's all-in-all. And this fancied knowledge was the bitterest drop in her cup. It was because she was childless.

And now, when it was quite too late, she began to try to please her husband. She would not go to balls formerly; she had made herself intensely disagreeable that memorable night at the theatre; now she went everywhere, a good deal to Wilfrid's annoyance. Of course she did not dance, but sat and glared in a corner, looking so stern and forbidding that even good-natured Mr. Denman, when ordered by his wife to take her in to supper, absolutely declined the task. Nor would she have had any supper at all on one particular occasion had not Tom Edwards taken compassion on her, just after Kennedy had finished his eleventh dance with Mrs. Davison.

Mrs. Kennedy had noted the number of dances; had noted the brilliance of youth of her rival; knew quite well, by instinct, how matters stood between these two. But she said not a word, only set her face like a flint, and waited for what time would bring.

As for Wilfrid, he was absolutely, unreasoningly happy. He was living in such a whirl of excitement that he had no time for remorse. They were worked very hard in the Shanghai Custom House; they went early and came away late. Every spare moment he had was filled up with Violet -- either seeing her, writing to her, reading chits from her, or planning their next meeting. Besides, one could be very gay in Shanghai. There were many clubs for all kinds of objects, and to most of these many Wilfrid belonged. He had given up the idea of saving, and was spending money recklessly though not viciously. In fact, his pace grew quite alarming to his best friends, and about a month or so after the Spring Races, to which Mrs. Kennedy could not bring herself to go, Mr. Denman was moved to speak quite seriously about Wilfrid to Flossie.

"Kennedy will be going to the dogs soon, if he doesn't take care," he said. "Can't you get Mrs. Davison to influence him a little? He really will be in serious trouble before long."

"Does he drink?" Flossie asked anxiously.

"No; at least not in the way young Edwards does. But still, I should fancy his head is not very strong. And he's acting like a fool too, in a way that's sure to get him into trouble. But he has the devil's own luck, all the same, little as he deserves it! Fancy, Flossie, last week a Chinaman came into the office selling Manila Lottery tickets. I took one for you, dear, but it was a blank, as usual! But Kennedy! He hummed and hawed over the concern, couldn't make up his mind, finally got the man to write down the numbers of two he fancied, and made him promise to bring them back in the afternoon, if he had them still. Actually, Kennedy couldn't decide which ticket he should take without 'having been home first,' as he put it. We all knew precious well it wasn't Mrs. Kennedy he was going to consult! All the youngsters were tittering, naturally. But here comes in his extraordinary luck. He came back after tiffin with the number settled, I presume. The Chinaman turned up again, and hadn't sold that identical ticket, the only one left. And to day we hear -- what? Kennedy has won no less than twenty thousand dollars!! Did you ever hear the like? 'Don't tell my missus!' he said, and off he went to Mrs. Davison's, in the middle of the day, not caring a jot for the passers-by. And this afternoon, -- out in a high gig, driving Mrs. Davison I Foolish! mad! ridiculous!"

And Mr. Denman flung himself into a rocking-chair, and noisily clattered his heels together, to signify his vexation.

As for Mrs. Denman, her vexation at the imprudence of the afternoon's drive quite took away her satisfaction at the lucky lottery ticket. But what use was it to remonstrate with Violet, to tell her to make Wilfrid Kennedy more careful? She had done so over and over again, and what had been the result?

"I love him, Flossie, just as he is; and I don't want him altered in the least. He only goes in for all these excitements because he can't get me. So do I; and I can't blame him for what I do myself!"

But these were explanations Mrs. Denman was not at liberty to give her husband. And, as she was a trifle superstitious, she could not help looking on this fresh stroke of luck to Wilfrid as a sign that after all Providence was on the lovers' side.

PART III.

CHAPTER I.

"There is a bundle of despatches down from Peking this morning. Marching orders for some of us, I guess. I wonder who is to go? Scarcely you, Kennedy, you've only been here nine months. Wonder if I'm the unlucky mortal?"

Tom Edwards leaned over Kennedy's desk to impart the news. Wilfrid was late that morning, and had been obliged to enter himself accordingly. And now he had to make up for lost time, and he was due at Mrs. Denman's for tiffin, and here was that idiot Edwards gassing away to him!

"A move may mean a promotion, though," Edwards went on. "I shouldn't object to an extra twenty-five taels a month. I've not found my heiress yet, you see! Nor have I got some one to pick me out the winning number in the Manila Lottery!"

This was intended for a dig, and might have had the effect desired on Wilfrid had not the ting-ch'ai attached to the Commissioner's office made his appearance at that moment.

"Mr. Kennedy, Commissioner talky you come topside."

And Wilfrid got up at once and went, leaving Tom Edwards much disturbed in mind.

"Is Kennedy going to be moved?" he asked, appealing to the whole office. "He's a favourite at headquarters, I've more than suspected for a long time. But it will be a beastly shame if he's jockeyed over our heads!"

"You had better not be in quite such a hurry about Kennedy's promotion," one of the Assistants remarked. "May be it is only intended for his good, to put him out of danger, this transfer you make so sure of. Perhaps Mrs. Kennedy's health demands a change!"

Then they all laughed, till the chief Assistant called for order, and pointed to five or six clerks belonging to different hongs, who had been waiting the officials' leisure for the last ten minutes.

Every one was busy when Wilfrid came back into the office, but every one found time to whisper the same question to him as he passed to his own place --

"Promotion?"

"No. Taiwan-fu."

Then he sat down to his work, and waited for them to come to condole with him.

He wanted their sympathy, anybody's sympathy, badly! The blow which he had known was bound to fall had fallen, but alas I how much too soon. It did not so much matter to him that Fate was decreeing his exile in distant Formosa, where everything would be against him -- climate, want of society, all the et ceteras that made up the pleasantnesses of life in the outports on the mainland of China. Wilfrid had been in ports quite as unhealthy, quite as solitary, before. But those had been the days when he had never met Violet, when he was heart and hand free. To him at the present moment it seemed life must come to an end, that he must die a physical death, or become a raving maniac, if the hope of seeing Violet was taken from him. Surely the Fates allowed him little enough now -- only a few short hours in the course of the week. He could not do with less, he could not do without her at all! To get up in the morning and wish it were night; to lie dreaming of her by night, and long for the morning; without hope, in a port where mails were months old before you got them; -- the situation was impossible!

And how glad Mrs. Kennedy would be to hear the news! Why, it was only the evening before that she had said she wanted to get away from Shanghai, that she might have the chance of seeing him, Wilfrid, "occasionally," in an outport! Had she been working for this end? Had she got this wish carried up to Peking? The Thomsons had gone up there lately, and Mrs. Thomson had been a good deal with Mrs. Kennedy, and had used her brougham freely. Was this the quid pro quo?

Wilfrid was not naturally of a suspicious nature; but his wife's words the previous evening had grated on his ear, and they came back uncomfortably now. He felt he could not tell her face to face of this disaster, and see her look of "thankful" triumph. He wrote the news on a slip of paper, and sent it to her by an office-coolie. She would have worn off her first joy by the time he saw her next.

It was otherwise with Violet. He must see her and tell her himself, lest the shock of hearing from an outsider might betray her. So he wrote her also a chit, bidding her wait for him in the Cemetery on her way to Mrs. Denman's tiffin.

And then to work, to try to shut out that horrible, blank future before him. An endless future, without one ray of hope in it! And he had been going to do such great things, if only he had been allowed to stay on in Shanghai. First, he had been going to pay off all his debts. Violet herself had undertaken to be his banker, and had taken possession, as a preliminary, of his just-won dollars. What was the use of being lucky now? What good would his money do him in Taiwan-fu? What use was it even to be alive there?

And then came back to him a few words, lightly spoken, which had been amongst those offered to him for consolation by his fellow-Assistants that morning -- 

"If I had just won a big prize in the Manila Lottery, I would see the I.G. at Jericho before I would go to Formosa!"

Wilfrid got up, put on his hat, and walked straight out of the office, the minute the clock struck twelve. He had made up his mind to see the I.G. at Jericho.

CHAPTER II.

It was a heavy, still, and oppressive day, the one following that on which Wilfrid Kennedy received his orders for Taiwan-fu. Not a breath of air was stirring; even the "scissor-grinders," those insufferable cicadas, were mute. The mosquitoes, however, were in full swing, and in a vicious humour. For the "damp days" of the early Shanghai summer were drawing to a close, and the real heat was just about to begin.

Mr. Davison had had a restless night, and was feeling very unwell that morning. The hot weather did not suit him at all, and a breakfast was an impossibility. He got into his office about ten o'clock, and ordered a pick-me-up. For this would be a busy day for him. He was owner of one of the lines of steamers running between Shanghai and the coast ports, and to-day his finest and newest steamer, which had just made her maiden trip to the Far East, was to clear for Hongkong. Indeed, as Mr. Davison came into the office by one door the captain of the Corea entered by the other.

"Going out, Harvey?" Mr. Davison asked graciously. "Wish I were going with you! It would do me all the good in the world to get a blow. This place is positively stifling to-day!"

So it was. Great drops of perspiration were trickling down Mr. Davison's neck, and standing on the unsteady hand that reached out for his glass.

"That was just what I came to ask you about, sir," the skipper answered. "The glass is going down steadily, and a typhoon is coming up, just as surely as God made little apples. By your leave and with your consent, Mr. Davison, I won't take the Corea out in such weather as this. I'll stay in till the blow is over. I'm an old hand on this coast, and I can tell pretty surely what's going to happen. And I'd rather not run the risk with a new ship, or indeed any ship at all. Put her off twenty-four hours, please, sir."

"Till the blow has begun, you had better say!" sneered Mr. Davison. "I just wish it would blow, and freshen us up a bit! You're always croaking about 'blows,' Harvey. Perpetually crying 'wolf!' I don't care if it does blow. I don't mean to have the Corea lying here eating her head off. Here are all your papers ready, cargo finished, everything done. -- What do you mean by coming croaking here now, sir!"

Mr. Davison's temper was very short at the best of times, and this was not even a good time. And his worst manner was always reserved for his skippers, and more especially for Captain Harvey, who had a disagreeable habit of speaking out his own mind, as on this occasion.

His reply in the present instance was: -- 

"My opinion is, Mr. Davison, that it's not fit weather to take a ship out in, and that if we go we risk the lives of the crew."

"You are afraid of going, then?" Mr. Davison enquired sarcastically. "Come, come, you must have better reason for staying in port than a typhoon due next week. Why, there's the Chanticleer, -- rotten, crazy old tub that she is, -- her captain didn't think twice of taking her out this morning. She passed by a couple of hours and more ago. Won't the Hongkong men laugh when they hear we let ourselves be beaten by her!"

"The Chanticleer has gone out, do you mean to say? Well, her skipper must have taken leave of his seven senses! Gone out? -- are you sure she's gone out?" Captain Harvey continued in a more doubtful tone. "I didn't see her, at any rate."

"No, you were probably asleep," Mr. Davison said drily. "But you can take my word for it; and that she'll be in Hongkong twenty-four hours before you, though you go twelve knots, and she can only make nine!"

And he turned his back on the strong-minded skipper, and sat down at his desk as though Harvey were already gone.

But the old sea-dog did not go. Mr. Davison had touched him just between the joints of his harness, in that tender place where he could be hurt. There was one thing Joseph Harvey could not bear, and that was being beaten, even by one admittedly his inferior. A storm was coming sure enough; of that he was positive, and the time of year warned him that it might be a dangerous one. There were no weather signals or storm reports in China in those days, but a man of his experience did not need them. He had come with the intention of refusing to take his ship out; he would willingly have paid out of his own pocket any expenses that might be incurred by the delay; but all his convictions were shaken by that wretched Chanticleer, sailing to crow over him in Hongkong.

"Mr. Davison."

A good five minutes had elapsed since the taipan had subsided into his chair and correspondence. Mr. Davison was perfectly aware that Captain Harvey was still in the room, and had a pretty shrewd guess at what was passing in the skipper's mind. But he snarled out: -- 

"What, are you there still? Why don't you get aboard and to sleep before the storm comes?"

"No joking, please," the captain answered angrily. "I've made up my mind to go out, and I'll do so in another hour. But, Mr. Davison, I wish you to remember that I've given it as my opinion that we are running a great risk."

"Oh, you've changed your mind, have you?" Mr. Davison answered lightly. "I'll take the responsibility, and the kudos too if you like, so long as you get into Hongkong before the Chanticleer!"

* * * * *

"Harvey's an old croaker," Mr. Davison said to his chief cashier, who came into the room not long after the skipper had left it. "He funks going out when there's a puff of wind; he funks going out when there isn't. I have a fight with him every time. Made me quite hot just now! And I'm sure one doesn't need to be made hot on such a day as this. Don't let any one disturb me this morning. Brown. I'm very busy."

"Very sorry, Mr. Davison, but there's a lady here, a Mrs. Kennedy, who says she must see you directly."

"Mrs. Kennedy? Who is Mrs. Kennedy? I can't see any one. Tell her so, Brown, and give her five dollars if she wants them."

"She's a lady, sir. Her husband is Assistant in the Customs. I think you had better see her."

It was lucky Mr. Davison was not looking up, and so did not see the peculiar smile that played round Mr. Brown's carefully cultivated moustache.

"Shew her in then. Brown. Boy, take away this glass."

Mr. Davison got up, smoothed his few remaining locks before a glass, and drew forward an armchair for his visitor. Mrs. Kennedy, Mrs. Kennedy, -- he seemed to remember the name. Where had he heard it, where had he seen it? Oh yes, in a chit-book lately, Mrs. Davison's chit-book, brought by mistake to him. Still, it was strange that Mrs. Kennedy should come to see him instead of his wife. Probably she had come in at the wrong door, and that fool Brown --

Mrs. Kennedy was standing before liim now. A plain, not too young lady, in a drab cotton gown and a large garden hat, tied under the chin with ribbons.

"Mr. Davison," she said; and at the sound of her voice the mighty taipan gave a start. It was so hollow, and seemed to come from her boots. "Read this!"

And she handed him a sheet of paper.

Mr. Davison could not read without glasses, and it took him some time to find them. When he had done so, he read the paper, which ran as follows: -- 

"My dear Louisa,

I find it will be impossible for me to go to Taiwan-fu leith you. I have deceived you for a long time, but I will deceive you no longer. I am going away, where you will never find me nor hear of me again. I beg of you to go back to Bath, and forget you have ever known me. Would to God for your sake you never had! [There was a big blot here, as if some words had been written and scratched out.]
W.K"

Mr. Davison read the letter, folded it up carefully, and returned it to the owner.

"Well?" that lady asked anxiously.

"Do you want any opinion on that letter?" Mr. Davison enquired in a puzzled manner. "If so, you had better consult a lawyer. For myself, I scarcely understand why you have shewn it to me. I neither know who the writer is, nor to whom it is addressed, nor what it means. Have you not mistaken the house, my dear madam?"

And he turned to the bell, and laid hold of the rope. The woman must clearly be either mad or drunk.

"Mistaken? I only wish I had mistaken the house! I hoped I was altogether mistaken, till I went to your private house, and found that your wife had eloped with my husband!"

Mr. Davison's hand fell from the bell-rope; his jaw fell, his face turned livid. It was a dangerous moment for a stout man on such a sultry day. He staggered to the chair he had placed ready for his visitor, and sat down on it, perfectly unable to speak for a moment.

Mrs. Kennedy looked round the room. The door into the outer office was standing ajar, and indiscreet ears might be within hearing. She closed the door and locked it.

"Mr. Davison," she said, lowering her voice to an awesome whisper, "this business has been going on for a long time. I have known of it for many months. But I never thought it would come to this!"

And here Mrs. Kennedy, actually for the first time in her married life, broke down, and covered her face with her hands.

That moment's pause gave Mr. Davison time to recover. He sat up straight and addressed her in his own peculiar style.

"You are labouring under a delusion, Mrs. -- ahem! Mrs. Davison cannot have anything to do with this very lamentable business. She is in her own apartment, as I can easily prove to you."

And he rose again to ring the bell.

"It is of no use your ringing," Mrs. Kennedy cried, hastily drying her eyes. "The servants can't tell you anything, or they won't. But Mrs. Davison is not in her room. I've just come from there. Ask your hoy if she hasn't gone out!"

But this Mr. Davison would not do, naturally. He walked out of the office, upstairs, and into Violet's boudoir himself.

No, she was not there. Her amah was, however, and busily engaged in tidying (and ransacking) a drawer filled with handkerchiefs -- an article against which no Chinaman or Chinawoman is proof.

Missisy have go outside. What time go? No savvey. Little time come back? No savvey; no have talkey. Missisy one piecey man go? No savvey. Go carriage? No savvey. "No savvey" was the only answer Mr. Davison, now slightly disquieted, got from the amah.

The boy was nearly equally discreet. The only information Mr. Davison gathered from him was that Mrs. Davison had gone out very early, before seven o'clock, and had got into a jin-ricksha just outside the gate.

This in itself was a strange circumstance, and increased Mr. Davison's discomfort and displeasure. It was a most undignified thing for his wife to have done. Indeed, he felt exceedingly uncomfortable by the time he again faced Mrs. Kennedy, who was standing bolt upright just where he had left her.

"Mrs. Davison is not at home," he said stiffly. "But I have no doubt she will come in shortly. Will you call again?"

He settled himself once more at his desk, with as unconcerned an air as he could assume. Mrs. Kennedy hesitated a moment. Then she said, having first closed the door, which Mr. Davison had again left open: -- 

"I don't think you quite understand me, Mr. Davison. I have the most positive proof, furnished by one who saw them on board, that my husband and your wife have gone off on the Chanticleer this morning. What do you propose to do?"

Mrs. Kennedy had been born to command, and she had commanded all her life. Mr. Davison felt and recognised her power now. It was in a voice his inferiors did not know that he answered: -- 

"I do not know. I am too confused to know. Are you sure that you are right?"

It was pitiable to see him now, so fallen from his own self-estimation. They were truly partners in misfortune, and Mrs. Kennedy's fellow-feeling actually made her kindly towards this "evil liver." Her voice was comparatively soft as she said; -- 

"I have made up my mind what I shall do, Mr. Davison, and I think you had better do the same. I could not bear to be pitied by the people here, nor to receive their sympathy. I want nothing from anybody. But I shall insist on my rights. My husband cannot, and shall not, desert me like this. I have legal claims upon him. I am going to follow him at once and bring him back. You had better do the same."

"Do the same, madam? It is quite impossible for me, quite impossible, granting even that your story is correct, which --"

"Very well then, stay and have the finger of scorn pointed at you. I will not, at any rate. I am going to Hongkong to-day, if I can find a steamer going. I will not sit quiet and be wronged. But I will beg of you, Mr. Davison, not to repeat any of our conversation. I hope no one in Shanghai will know of this business till it is all over. Good-bye."

And Mrs. Kennedy stalked out of the office, carefully leaving the door open.

Mr. Davison lay back in his chair, and mopped his forehead. Through the half-open door sounds of suppressed tittering came to his ears. The young men were making merry over his strange visitor. Was it possible they would make merry over him too, over the old fool who couldn't take care of his young wife? Why hadn't he looked after her better? How was it he had neglected her doings so entirely? Of course she didn't care for him, he had always known that; but that had never seemed a matter of importance to him. He had married her in the way of business, and the marriage had not brought any credit on the hong. His wife had been a bad investment, in short. But how would this matter strike the Shanghai world to-day? His friends, how would they receive the news? How they would suddenly stop their whispering when he came into the Club that evening! How his intimate old cronies would venture on a word of sympathy! Sympathy with Mm! No, that was intolerable; and this woman.

this Mrs. Kennedy, was right in running away from it. He would do so also; and though he might never take Violet back, at any rate none of his old acquaintances should have the chance of sneering at him. After all, it might all be a lie, but if it were not he was too old to be fooled by a girl now!

And so it came to pass that just as the Corea, with Mrs. Kennedy on board, was about to cast off from the wharf, Mr. Davison's brougham hastily drove up, and the taipan himself stepped on the deck, and told the skipper he too was going to Hongkong.

CHAPTER III.

The Chanticleer was well outside the river by evening. For the last time in her life, so Violet hoped, she had looked on those Woosung forts. It was stiflingly hot still, but the captain promised a blow beyond Gutzlaff, at the mouth of the Yangtsze. And there on the deck Wilfrid and Violet had sat, and had watched the land gradually disappear, -- that ugly brown muddy shore where Violet had suffered so much. The Chanticleer was not a fast boat; she was scarcely a passenger-boat at all, and it took a long time to get down to Gutzlaff. But even that was passed now, and they were really outside, beyond the dirty yellow water at the mouth of the Yangtsze, with their faces turned to Hongkong.

How utterly delightful it was, in spite of the ill-kept ship, the stuffy cabins, and the ricketty deck-chairs! There the two sat, and planned out their new life, calculated their resources, went over their perils, and ended each gloomy suggestion by a grasp of each other's hand and a look in each other's eyes. They were in no hurry to kiss each other now; they would have all their lifetime to kiss in. Indeed, they scarcely felt themselves lovers any more; they were simply husband and wife. The past was altogether a dead past, but a past too present for them to realise any remorse for it as yet.

But all the time, as they sailed on and on, though they knew it not, the pursuers came after them and gained on them.

Violet was tired and went early to bed. The evening was, if possible, still more sultry than the morning, and the night was worse than the evening. Wilfrid could not sleep. A mosquito had got into his cabin and kept singing just above his ear. When ho closed his eyes, a sort of spectre seemed to stalk in, with his wife's hat, his mother's eyes, and Violet's features. He tried to smoke, but it was of no use. The matches were damp, and when at last he lighted his cigarette, it burnt down on one side, and only stained his fingers. He got up and went out on deck.

It was early yet, for the bells had only just gone half-past eleven. Very still too was the air, for he fancied he could hear the bells of another vessel, which was apparently overhauling them, -- a vessel whose lights his long-sighted eyes could scarcely make out. Wilfrid walked along the deck, and began to climb up on to the bridge to catch a better sight of her.

And then a strange thing happened. The night, as has just been said, had been still with a stillness perfectly oppressive. But as Wilfrid laid his hand on the railing of the ladder that led up to the bridge, there came, as it seemed round an island straight ahead -- a sharp pointed rock whereon never foot had trod -- a sudden cold gust of wind. It came so suddenly and so sharply that it nearly lifted Wilfrid off his feet. And it swept along the deck, and carried across to the bulwarks those two deck chairs on which Violet and he had sat. Then the gust passed further along, towards that other distant vessel.

Jamming his cap on his head, Wilfrid climbed on to the bridge. The captain was pacing it alone and did not notice him. Kennedy stood still and looked around.

Truly the night was ghostly, awesome, up here! The moon, which had been trying to shine through a film as of heat when Wilfrid went to bed, had now gone in behind a thick bank of cloud, and a heavy pall seemed to hang from the sky and lose itself in the ocean behind them. Just ahead loomed the black rock, and a little to their left, like phantom ships, the great masts of two Foochow pole-junks straggled up into the air. And in the far distance, from that dark south towards which they were steering, came a muttering sound as of distant thunder. Wilfrid looked behind for the lights of the other steamer. They had disappeared in the haze.

"A storm is coming up," Wilfrid thought, "and quickly too." Even as he thought there came another gust, chiller than the last, not from round the island, but across from the coast. Sheer across them it came, and the boats on the starboard side gave an ominous creak. And at this gust the skipper turned sharply round and disappeared into the chartroom.

As the captain went into the chartroom the chief officer's head appeared upon the ladder.

"You up, Mr. Kennedy? I should think you'd better get below. It's going to blow."

It had began to do so already. The weather had changed rapidly within the last ten minutes. The puffs of wind were coming faster and faster, and the sky had grown black all over. No sign now even of the great rock they were just then passing; and the junk masts were rocking and swaying to and fro. Rocking and groaning too, as only Chinese masts can groan. And the sound of men hauling down a sail came to the ears of the two on the bridge as though through cotton wool.

"How's the glass, skipper?"

"Falling, sir, falling steadily. It's going to be a dirty night."

"Look there!" the chief officer suddenly said, pointing in the direction of the nearest junk.

Through the growing, oppressive darkness Wilfrid peered down towards the water. From the junk's side there was floating away, floating towards them, a little white paper junk, the very copy of the great ship itself.

"The Chinese think a typhoon is coming. They always send out a boat like that in typhoon weather. That's for Joss to sink instead of themselves!"

The officer laughed, and passed into the chartroom. But Wilfrid felt a shiver of something like fear creep up his back. If the officer had outgrown superstition, Wilfrid Kennedy had not.

But he had no time left for fear. The sea, now that they were beyond the shelter of the island, was no longer the oily mill-pond it had been. Great and angry waves were rising, and the wind was rising too. Nearer and nearer the great storm swept, faster and faster it came on them. Now it was as though great guns were cannonading somewhere close at hand, now as though the sound of sharp volleys of artillery came borne towards them. And then the Chanticleer began to rock, the boats on the davits creaked, and faintly, very faintly, through the fast gathering storm came the sound of eight bells from the deck below.

"Go below, Mr. Kennedy, and stay there. We are going to batten down everything," came the orders from the captain.

"Wilfrid, where are you?"

Violet, nearly blown away, was clinging to the lowest step of the bridge as he came down.

"Darling, why did you not stay in your cabin? It is not safe for you out here."

Scarcely safe for him either, as matters then stood. For at that moment a great wave broke over the deck, and carried over the bulwarks, a very little way from them, the two deck chairs. Then the Chanticleer righted herself and plunged forward into the black night.

"Oh Wilfrid, what is happening? We are running down a junk!"

Close by them, right ahead, sounded an awful, terror-carrying shriek. Heedless of the danger, Wilfrid and Violet staggered towards the bulwarks. And there, bearing down on them, filled with men and women shrieking for their lives, they saw a large fishing boat. Right on their bows she came, and death for all her crew seemed inevitable, when she suddenly turned at a sharp angle, "kept away," and grazed past them at half-a-yard's length.

Just above their heads they could hear the skipper hurling anathemas on these reckless fishermen, and then the Chanticleer's whistle sounded for an instant. There was an instant's lull; the next moment came a crash, as the wind caught one of the boats on the port side, and lifted her clean off the davits.

"Look out for yourself, Mr. Kennedy! Excuse me, Mrs. Davison!"

The skipper had gripped Violet's arm, only just in time to prevent her from falling. The Chanticleer was rolling and pitching, and wave after wave came splashing over the low bulwarks. In a moment Violet felt herself lifted off her feet and carried in two strong arms, not Wilfrid's, into a place of safety, into the captain's own cabin, which adjoined the deck-house.

"You can stay here if you like," he said. "You'll find it less stuffy than down below, and I can look after you better. Would you like Mr. Kennedy to come?"

He was a kind-hearted old salt, with a very weak spot for a pretty face. And one of his officers had just been telling him why these two passengers were on board, -- that is, the "why" as commonly reported in Shanghai. And that "why" it was which had brought him off the bridge, and made him offer his cabin, and, when he went back to the chartroom, give special instructions to the third officer to get Mrs. Davison anything she might happen to want.

"The blow will be over soon," the skipper told Violet cheerfully. "Looks like the tail-end of a typhoon, did you say Mr. Kennedy? Oh no! nothing so bad as that! Only, as you see, Mrs. Davison, we always take precautions!"

And then he shut the cabin door, bidding Wilfrid lock it, "in case the water should get in" -- and that was the last they saw of him.

Inside, out of the chilly storm air, the cabin seemed stuffy, almost stifling. The little oil lamp smelt far more than it enlightened, and swayed to and fro with the rolling, pitching vessel. Outside the window all was black darkness, save when every now and then a lantern flickered past them as one of the crew, slipping and sliding about, passed to some duty. No officer came near them. Nothing reached them from beyond the cabin but the mighty splashing of the waves, as they broke again and again over the deck, while the wind howled and roared on every side, whistled shrill through the rigging, boomed from the bridge, moaned from the land, and rushed away, shrieking, over the great ocean to some distant land.

Crash! crash! they could hear the crockery smashing in the pantry and saloon just below them. The cargo was shifting too; there was the dull thud of heavy bales knocking against each other. Splash, came the water against the cabin window, splash, splash, again and again. Only the very strongest of glasses could have stood the shock. The lamp, which had begun to sputter, suddenly gave out, and died away into a sickening stench. Then it went out altogether, and Wilfrid and Violet were left alone in the darkness. But still the Chanticleer kept on her way, and once, when there came an instant's lull in the howling storm, they fancied they heard the captain's voice shouting orders from the bridge.

But that was the last lull. The bells had stopped chiming; time had come to an end for that night on the Chanticleer. Rattle, rattle went the screw, the waves knocked louder than ever for admission, and Wilfrid and Violet, no longer able to sit on the little seat near the door, crouched down together on the floor, holding tight to each other.

Now the pumps were at work; they could distinguish the sound of them through the din. The engines were going too, for the Chanticleer was still holding her own. The night was wearing away, or soon should be. For one instant a grey streak flitted across the sky, and then came a new sound from a new quarter. Rain. Eight over them it swept, a furious driving scud, and lashed their roof like a shower of bullets.

"The storm will be over soon, darling. See, the rain has come!"

But even as Wilfrid spoke, the wind gave a fresh howl, and suddenly struck the Chanticleer full on the port side. For an instant there sounded the rattle of the screw, and then there ran a mighty shiver through the vessel, followed by a long sharp crack. A terrific roar went up from a group of sailors who must have been crouching close by. There was a general rush backwards, and Wilfrid, peering out through the window, saw a frightful black iron monster dashing from right to left on the deck, scattering destruction with every swoop.

"Violet, you heard that noise. It was the steering-gear which broke. We're done for now; the ship is unmanageable. Oh, why did I bring yon to die like this! Violet, darling, forgive me, tell me you do!"

Wilfrid's arm was round her; his eyes tried in vain to see her through the awful darkness. Was she going to faint, or to shrink away from him now? There was one moment's agonising pause, and then Violet had whispered in his ear: -- 

"Death with you is easy, Wilfrid. Only hold me tight all the time. Promise you won't let me go!"

* * * * *

The Chanticleer staggered, rolled, and slowly, slowly began to move round, carried by the wind. And all the time that awful banging and swaying went on quite near to them, while the waves swirled and sucked round the ship, dragging her, like wild beasts, right into the trough of the sea, where they could devour her at leisure.

"Did you hear that Wilfrid? It was a whistle, quite close. We shall be saved!"

Yes, it was a whistle; but one which the poor disabled Chanticleer had no time to answer. Looking out of the cabin window it was all black darkness for a minute, and then suddenly a great red Eye flamed in upon them. Something black towered above the Chanticleer, a mass loomed through the driving pall of rain. There was a mighty shock, a shock that burst open the cabin door, the noise of crashing timber, the sound of many voices mad with fear, a flare as of fire, and as a pitiless, unreasoning accompaniment, the eternal beat of the waves, the pelt of the rain. All this can only have lasted a moment, but that moment held in it a lifetime of agony. For Wilfrid and Violet distinctly saw, on the deck, not twenty paces from their battered refuge, her whom they both had wronged -- Wilfrid's wife. How she came there, where she could have been standing when the Corea and the Chanticleer crashed together, they were never to know. Only she was there, even in death to come between them.

Had they time to realise all this, or was death too near for them to feel any of the anguish that life would have had in keeping for them? None can tell. For swift following upon that vision came a great and shining wave, and when it had passed the Corea and the Chanticleer had both disappeared into that great locker of which no man holds the key.

But to this day no man knows their grave, for not one fragment of the Corea nor of the Chanticleer has ever been washed ashore. They both went out from port, and disappeared, in that memorable typhoon. Men talked of them, and wondered, and then forgot. The coast almanacks alone keep their memory green.

Nor will Mrs. Denman ever know whether Violet and Wilfrid repented of their deed, nor even if Mr. Davison and Mrs. Kennedy had found them. But this one thing she is sure of in her inmost heart, though she is but a "gigghng goose," that if they two, Wilfrid and Violet, could only arise from the dead and tell her what they feel, it would be that they are satisfied.

PLAYING PROVIDENCE.

CHAPTER I.

This is how Mr. Smith, clerk in the Customs at Kelung, some thirty miles from the Customs' headquarters at Hobe, North Formosa, came to be in Hobe for the space of some six weeks; and how the Commissioner's wife, Mrs. Bridget Delane, came to be mixed up in the story of his life, with the results to be set forth hereafter.

For three whole months, ever since Mrs. Delane, in the person of her husband, newly appointed Commissioner of Customs, had taken over charge of the port, there had been one thorn in her side, one pebble in her shoe, one crease in the smooth page of her life. She had, as was her wont, found out, sought out, wormed out, ordered out, every little private detail, every aspect of family or of bachelor life; each dead, or alive and secretly-cherished, love-story. In short, she knew every single circumstance, trivial or important, about every single mortal in Hobe, Twatutia, and Kelung, the three settlements which, up to the time when Formosa was ceded to Japan, made up the Treaty Port of Tamsui. True or false, wrung out or volunteered, the secrets of every individual, the skeletons in the cupboards, the family jars, the temporary estrangements, -- none of these had escaped her. Only in one case had she been baffled, and that was concerning this same man Smith.

And now her enemy was delivered into her hand, delivered by the merest fluke, by a veritable dispensation of Providence I For he had gone down with an unaccountably violent attack of malarial fever, away in distant Kelung, just when the only doctor's services were required in the other two settlements. At the beginning of summer this was, when the freshly turned-up earth reeks of malaria, and the death-rate per diem among the Chinese soldiery is steadily mounting up to its maximum. So Dr. Eugen Gregorius, not being able to be in two places at one and the same time, had requisitioned the Customs' rapid-boat, and had broiight his patient with him back to Hobe.

Who indeed was this Smith? Mrs. Bridget had before this vainly enquired of every available person, from her husband down to her chair-coolie. No one knew, or at any rate every one professed not to know. Dr. Gregorius, who united to his professional knowledge a vast amount of information about every one else, which information he was always perfectly ready to impart, solemnly swore he had never heard Mr. Smith give a clue as to what he was, had been, had come from, or where he expected to go to. Smith -- C. was his initial -- had come over to Formosa in the days of the late Commissioner, with his appointment as clerk in the Customs in a carpet bag, which literally contained nothing besides but a sponge and a toothbrush. He had asked to be sent to Kelung, or rather his appointment contained a clause stationing him there. He had not registered as a British subject, though they were all of them, Gregorius himself included, certain that he was an Englishman, by reason of the aforesaid toothbrush. But then the Consul always laughed at registration, and was lax, terribly lax! Would the Imperial German Vice-Consul in Amoy were a quarter as lax I This British Consul actually allowed Mr. Smith to do as he liked I Invited him certainly to dinner once, but only laughed when a curt refusal was sent back. And so --

But here Mrs. Delane's anger had got the better of her, and she had broken in, vowing that this state of affairs should not last, and that she herself would investigate what was probably a most shocking scandal.

Yet three months had passed since that day, and the Commissioner's wife was no "forrarder!" True, she had carefully examined the mail-bags, but no letter had she found addressed to Mr. Smith. Nor had the Consulate letter-coolie, who, with a New Year dollar in view, brought all his packages of correspondence for her to inspect, ever got a letter for or from Kelung. Mrs. Delane actually began to grow thin under the mental torment which this mystery gave her. She ceased to take any interest in the squabbles of the servants at the Junior Customs' Mess, and forgot to insist that the unfortunate infants of the tidewaiters should take special concoctions, or wear extraordinary garments manufactured by herself. Her hair began to fall out; her appetite to fail; her unfortunate spouse to be deprived of his night's rest. And all because of Mr. Smith of Kelung.

"May I come and see him?" she asked eagerly, when Dr. Gregorius, as was his fashion, came in with the tea-things to report affairs in general.

The doctor's round face grew long, and he looked blankly uncomfortable.

"Oh no, my dear Mrs. Delane, by no means. Why, he is very ill, and the excitement caused by the presence of any stranger might prove fatal to him. In a few days, in a few days," he added consolingly.

But Mrs. Bridget scouted the compromise.

"I have been trained as a hospital nurse, Dr. Gregorius, so I am just the person who ought to go," she snapped out. "You are trying to keep me away from him; but you are wrong. A woman always makes the best nurse, so I am going!"

"No, no, you must not go," cried the unfortunate doctor.

Mrs. Delane at a patient's bedside meant an alarming rise in temperature in any case, and in this particular case might mean something far more serious. "You must not go; the fever is infectious!"

Now this was a lie, and Gregorius knew it. But lies are justifiable where doctors are concerned, and this one, boldly spoken, was a telling lie. Mrs. Delane was an abject coward as regarded infection.

"Then I must wait," she said in a tone of vexation. "There, Dr. Gregorius, take your tea. You had better not sit too near me if there is an infectious disease in your house. Why, indeed, do you have him in your house? Why don't you put him into the Mission hospital? If he is so ill, he won't mind, or know, that he is amongst Chinamen. Shall I send my chair-coolies down to move him now? No? I think you are very wrong doctor, to keep him and risk all our lives!"

And for that one sorry lie Dr. Gregorius was obliged to listen for half-an-hour to an exhortation on the duty and manner of disinfecting, was obliged to refuse half-a-dozen remedies for himself and his patient, and had to parry some half hundred skilfully introduced hints as to information concerning Mr. Smith which might have fallen from the sick man in his delirium. For Mrs. Delane was a firm believer in the possibility of surprising secrets out of a delirious person.

"I truly have to work hard for my dinner," said Eugen Gregorius to himself as he went down to his own house that evening. "And after all, the dinner was not worth the eating. And the wine was corked, execrably corked!"

CHAPTER II.

Fifteen years of Formosa, and some twenty-five of China, had rotted away many of the good qualities with which Eugen Gregorius had started in life. The general demoralisation of the foreigners around him, caused in part by a deadly climate, in part by want of occupation, in part by too much ready money easily available, had slowly but surely affected even the sturdy Teuton. By dint of much fever he had almost become fever-proof; by dint of hard drinking -- not excessive but steady imbibing -- he had become callous to suffering in himself or in others; by dint of losing his friends, or by being forgotten of them, he had become hard-hearted, with no pleasures in life but mere animal pleasures, -- good food, and a good bed, and with no horizon beyond the very day he was then living.

It had not been altogether Formosa that had made him thus. There was a certain false-hearted Luischen, whose photograph had long since faded into a few yellow streaks, who had in the first place been responsible for the damage done, -- a Luischen who was now a stout, double-chinned Frau, the mother of fourteen, and of twins innumerable! But Gregorius had never known her as Frau; she was to him still the "gnadiges Fraulein" of his beer and long pipe days, -- days gone and quite forgotten now, or only remembered lately, when the coarsely inquisitive hand of Mrs. Delane had sought to unlock his most innermost chamber.

At any rate, sentiment or not (for sentiment dies hard in a Teutonic breast), Dr. Gregorius was determined that Mrs. Delane should leave Smith alone until he was strong enough to fight for himself. But Fate is stronger than determination! Even as the doctor was taking his morning cocktail, just before going in to see his patient, the boy brought him a chit from Twatutia, the tea-settlement twelve miles up the Tamsui river. Fever and sunstroke up there; Gregorius wanted at once. The matter brooked no delay, so after having looked in on Smith, who was tossing about in his sleep, muttering under his breath, and after having ordered Smith's boy on no account to let any one in, and to give certain medicines at certain times, the doctor set off in a native boat, against the tide and against his will, for Twatutia and his fresh patient.

And the hot hours dragged slowly by, and Smith still tossed and moaned. The boy, replete with rice and pickled cabbage, had subsided into a heavy sleep. The sun rose higher and higher, and outside gradually the noisy natives grew quiet. Every one was resting. Even on board the great junks at anchor the sailors had ceased chattering and were lying, drowsy, under the shelter of the piled-up sails. No sound but the splash of oars coming nearer and nearer the little jetty; then the sound of the boathook scraping along the great stones to find a holding-place, and the spell of sleep was broken.

A stout female figure, with a sunhat calculated by its fright-fulness and dimensions to strike terror into the hearts of the beholders, toiled slowly along the uneven, baking flags of the jetty, up to the doctor's house. The figure was followed by a diminutive Chinese boy, the grin of a demon widening his already flattened-oat nose, who was bearing a basket containing many parcels, each of the ominous empty-jam-tin shape.

It was Mrs. Bridget and her "familiar spirit," her spy in plain language, who had come to look after Dr. Gregorius' patient in Dr. Gregorius' absence.

And a good reason, to her thinking, had she in coming. For, by one of those strange coincidences which often happen in real life, a courier had arrived that very morning from Kelung with a mail from a Spanish vessel that had put into port from Japan. And with the mail had come, and now actually stared her in the face, a letter addressed in a shaky, childish hand to

Cyril Smith, Esq.,

Kelung,

North Formosa.

To say that Mrs. Delane had turned over, held up to the light, smelt, tried a loose corner, and thoroughly examined the envelope a dozen times, would not be exaggerating. The letter burned in her presence like fire. She could think of nothing else. "Cyril" -- then he must be a gentleman. (All Mrs. Delano's hypotheses she invariably assumed at once to be facts: things were, because she thought they might be.) A child's hand -- what child? Why a child? Was it a disguised hand? "Hakodate" was the postmark. Did she know anybody in Hakodate? No, not exactly; but the cousin of one of the tidewaiters in Amoy was constable at the British Consulate there. He would know if there were any Smiths in the place. But supposing Smith was an assumed name, how then?

"Doctor have go Twatutia," announced the familiar spirit, who had been stationed on the verandah with a spyglass.

"Have go?" asked Mrs. Delane eagerly. "How fashion you savvey?"

"Doctor-coolie just now have talkey my. Missisy can see boat; just now come Kantow." And the spyglass was handed to Mrs. Delane.

There, sure enough, under the bold cliff called Kantow, halfway to Twatutia, a tiny speck was to be seen creeping on.

"Boy, catchey boat, catchey coolie come. My go doctor house. Chop-chop!"

And bearing the enigma-solving letter, Mrs. Delane had gone.

It was easy enough to get into the sick man's room. The door stood wide open, and though the boy in charge awoke with a start when the Commissioner's wife appeared in the verandah, he did not attempt to oppose her way. The small boy set down the basket inside the bamboo blinds, and betook himself to the house of a neighbouring friend, there to gamble with dominoes for a few cash until his mistress should reappear. And Mrs. Bridget, left in possession, and holding tightly the letter in her hands, walked firmly up to the sick man's bed, and opened the mosquito-curtain.

At the noise of the heavy step, Cyril Smith had half come to his senses, and when Mrs. Delane looked down on him he was lying on his back, staring with feverishly bright and anxiously shifting eyes at the inquisitive but kindly face and the portentous sunhat bending over him.

"I am the Commissioner," said Mrs. Bridget in a loud, distinct voice. This was true, the so-called Commissioner being only her shadow. "I have brought you a letter. Would you like me to read it to you?"

The sick man was all alive and alert in an instant. A sudden rush of blood to his head coloured his eyeballs; he opened his parched lips, and a stammering sound, ending in a groan, more than half alarmed Mrs. Delane. Pity, compassion, a faint far-off idea of what was struggling for utterance, almost tempted her to stay her hand. She laid the letter down on the table, and turned to the basket for one of the mysterious tins. It was jammed, and just as she managed to disengage it she heard a flop and a bang close behind her.

Cyril Smith lay as he had fallen on the floor, face downwards. But in his right hand he grasped tightly, so tightly that with difficulty she managed to take it from him -- when with the help of the boy she had got him back into bed -- the letter, now with the envelope half wrenched from it, and which had nearly cost the Customs' clerk his life.

Somehow or other that same letter slipped into Mrs. Delano's pocket when she was driven forth by the alarm of the approach of the doctor's boat. And as it had lost its envelope by the time she was halfway home, perhaps it is not astonishing that Bridget Delane knew what was in Cyril Smith's letter by bedtime, and, what is more, had persuaded herself that she had done the right thing and her duty in reading the aforesaid letter.

CHAPTER III.

But this self-complacency was not fated to last long.

What, indeed, is the use of knowing a secret if no one knows that you know it? What is the pleasure of possessing knowledge if you cannot impart it to the ignorant? A piece of knowledge such as this, too, which absolutely must be made use of at once since, as Dr. Gregorius said, Mr. Smith of Kelung was dying, and had been dying, slowly but certainly, ever since that fatal day when he had been called away to Twatutia?

Did Dr. Gregorius know of that visit paid in his absence? Had he, hearing of what had happened from the boy in charge, put two and two together, and fixed the calamitous four on Mrs. Delane's guilty head? If he did know, if he had guessed, or if he had been told. Dr. Gregorius at least never faced Mrs. Delane, nor accused her roundly of being next door to her brother's murderer. For why? A living dog is more to be feared than a dead lion; and though Dr. Gregorius honestly tried his best to keep the lion alive, he did so without any hope of succeeding. And afterwards, when the lion should be dead, the living dog might prove a most unpleasant enemy. For which cowardly sentiments not the doctor, but the Formosan climate, must have been clearly responsible.

But after two days, during which Dr. Gregorius had uniformly treated Mrs. Delane to the most alarming bulletins, the good lady began to fancy that she smelt a rat. Mr. Smith took so long to die that she began to think he might possibly after all be going to survive. At all events, she had leisure now to think over her secret, and to determine how to make use of it. She was bursting with the mystery: but to what purpose? Mr. Delane was away from home, away in Kelung, madly collecting information for a report on coal-mines and gold-washing. And even if he had been in Hobe, his wife would have hesitated to tell him. The transaction was, well, a trifle too "high-handed" for the little Commissioner's nerves. There was not a single woman in the place whom she trusted sufficiently to take into her confidence. The two or three tidewaiters' wives were "too great gossips," -- Mrs. Delane, of course, never ranked herself in the same category. There remained only one man whose advice she wished to take, that is, one man whom she really wanted to tell, and that was Dr. Gregorius.

Still, how awkward it would be to begin her story! Awkward or not, however, it must be done; and, after all, the telling might not be so hard as in anticipation.

And so it proved. The doctor himself led up to the difficult subject that very evening after dinner, when they were sitting out in the verandah, Mrs. Delane with her legs safely tied up in cotton pillow-cases against the mosquitoes, the doctor smoking one of Mr. Delane's choicest Manilas.

"I wish I knew whether Smith has any relations," Gregorius puffed forth, as though thinking aloud. "It is to me repugnant that he should die like a rat in a hole, and his friends never hear what has become of him. Who knows? he may have a wife, a child, waiting for him; for surely he has not been saving his money so carefully for nothing."

Mrs, Bridget stole a look at the doctor's face. How much did he know after all? Or was he merely pumping her? She held her breath in tight, and Eugen Gregorius resumed, after a somewhat lengthy pause:

"There has been found, near my jetty, an envelope bearing his name. But no letter inside. Now, how could he have dropped that envelope there? The boy tells me he never left his side while I was at Twatutia, and Smith most certainly had not strength enough to go outside my door. I cannot help thinking that in the envelope we hold the key to Smith's past life, that by it we could find out if there is any one who knows him, any one who cares for him. The I. G. must know, of course, and it may only have been a circular after all," he added, carelessly flicking off his cigar-ash.

"No, it wasn't a circular," Mrs. Bridget broke in, quite too eager to impart her news to notice how she had been "drawn" by her companion. "Why shouldn't it have been from his wife, doctor, whose place, as you rightly say, is by his side?"

It was pitch dark by now, and Mrs. Delane could not see the peculiar smile that curled the doctor's upper lip, bringing into view his huge tobacco-stained teeth.

"The right place -- that would depend upon what manner of woman she is. To have left him here by himself, without ever writing to him -- I have your word, Mrs. Delane, that no letter for him has ever passed through your hands -- "

"Until now," Mrs. Delane interrupted, the irresistible longing to tell mastering all her prudence. "Two days ago a letter came for Mr. Smith. You were away; I had to act on my own responsibility. I could not wait for you; I carried it down, and at his own request read it to him."

"And it was well you did so, as he could not have read it himself, at least since then," said the doctor drily. "From his wife, you said?"

"I didn't say anjthing," snapped Mrs. Delane. "I would not have told you now if Mr. Smith had been getting better. It is only because you say it is a serious matter that I consult you at all. Of course I need not consult you, for the matter of that, only two heads are sometimes better than one."

"Of course, of course," assented the doctor. But he added nothing more. He was going to allow Mrs. Delane plenty of rope.

"Do you know who he is, and who his wife is?" hissed Mrs. Bridget so close to his ear that Gregorius instinctively edged his chair away.

"No, upon my honour I don't!"

"He is the Cyril Russell who shot Frank Harrison in the streets of Shanghai two years ago."

"Cyril Russell? Frank Harrison? I don't recollect the story at all," said the doctor peevishly. "You forget how long a time two years is, and how a man down here in Formosa does not take a fierce interest in the Shanghai people and their doings. What was the story?"

Had Mrs. Delane been a little less eager to tell, she might have noticed how exceeding quietly the doctor received her information. But that he was listening was quite sufficient for her purpose.

"Oh, you must know the whole story, though you pretend to forget it," she said. "There was such a big scandal about it. Cyril Russell had a lovely wife, and he was -- well, jealous of her and Frank Harrison. Jealous with good cause too, as I can tell you another day! So one fine afternoon, just as Harrison was leaving the Club, Russell put a bullet into him. Not meaning to kill him, it was said, but merely to teach him a little lesson. But Frank Harrison died, -- a man who had lived such a fast life as his could not expect to recover, -- and Russell was tried for murder in the Supreme Court. Do you remember now?"

"Ah yes," said the doctor. "They acquitted him, or said 'Justifiable homicide, didn't they?"

"They acquitted him altogether, let him off scotfree. No jury, in the East at least, would have convicted him. But of course he had to disappear, and when the excitement was over every one forgot him. His wife was shipped off somewhere before the trial; no one knew what became of her. All that was certain, and has been certain, is that she was never divorced. They said he kept her for the children's sake; there were two children, a girl and a boy. I have a notion, though, that the boy died during the trial, so there can only be the girl left. And now Cyril Russell turns up here!"

"Are you sure of your facts, Mrs. Delano? Why should this man necessarily be your Cyril Russell?"

"Why? Read this."

And by the light of the drawing-room lamp Dr. Gregorius read:

"Hakodate, May 6.
"My dearest Cyril,

"I Have at last found out where you are from the Bank people, when I went to get my last money. There was a new young man, and he told me.

"Every time I touch the money I can't help believing that you do still love me, away down in your heart, and that some day you will forgive me, and take me back again. Why are you so cruel to me? Why do you never write? I have told you how sorry I am, and how I would do anything, anything, if you would only forgive me. That is all I want, dear, dear Cyril. For our dead Gerald's sake -- my hoy and yours -- for poor little Ida, without a father, forgive me and take me hack. I am making Ida address the envelope. I make her say a prayer for you every day.

Your heart-broken wife,

Sybil Russell."

The doctor read the letter through twice, and then made a movement as if to put it into his pocket.

"Give it to me, doctor." Mrs. Delane almost snatched the letter from Gregorius' hand. "What do you think I ought to do in answer to this?"

"Do?" answered the doctor grimly. "Is there anything to do just now? Had you not better wait for Smith to say what he wishes done himself?"

"But you say he will never say --"

"Ah, true. Then you will be able, in a few days' time, to write and inform his widow that her letter has killed him.

CHAPTER IV.

A letter, addressed in Mrs. Delane's best and clearest hooks and claws, plentifully underlined and besprinkled with points of exclamation, went to Hakodate by next steamer.

It was deeply bordered with black, although no death had been registered at the Consulate in the meanwhile. But Mrs. Delane had felt that the importance of her missive demanded something striking to the outward eye. She wished Mrs. Smith, or rather Mrs. Russell, to get a shock; and she considered herself the only person courageous enough to give it. Mrs. Delane prided herself upon her "courage." She no more minded bustling into a "poker"-party at the Outdoor Customs' Mess than she minded questioning her luckless female inferiors on the domestic arrangements of their own houses and those of their bachelor neighbours. And, above all, Mrs. Delane prided herself on the construction of "masterpieces" in letter-writing.

Since that evening in the verandah when she had told him Smith's sad story and showed him the letter, Dr. Gregorius had avoided the Commissioner's wife. Truth to tell, he felt a little ashamed of himself for the part he had played as receiver of confidences. He tried to assure himself that he could not have acted otherwise; that it would have been waste of time and of energy to have remonstrated with Mrs. Bridget; to have spoken out and let her see what he thought of her doings. He had even let her keep the letter, -- to show all round the Settlement. For show it she certainly would, and come to discuss it with Smith himself, too, directly she knew he was out of danger.

For Smith, though direly, seriously ill, was no longer in imminent danger. Weak enough certainly not to be allowed to speak, or to ask questions awkward to answer. But this state of matters could not last long; and on the morning when Smith had insisted on speaking, and had given evidence of his convalescence by plentifully "bobberying" the boy, Eugen Gregorius went up the hill and demanded audience of Mrs. Delane.

The good lady was entertaining a morning caller. The harbour-master's wife, an untidy, thriftless woman with an inconveniently large family, was receiving doles of ancient underclothing and ragged furs.

"We must all be kind to her when she comes," Mrs. Delane was saying as the door opened on Dr. Gregorius. "We must give her the chance of redeeming her past and of blotting out her wrong-doings. I shall look to you to help me, Mrs. Slade."

The words, spoken in a significant voice, naturally arrested the doctor's attention. Scarcely had Mrs. Slade bowed herself out of the room when he asked: -- 

"Who is arriving, Mrs. Delane? Any fresh movements in the service?"

"If you had come to see me yesterday I would have told you yesterday," answered Mrs. Delane. "And I should have been glad of your opinion. Only you have seemed lately to forget that your most important patients -- by important I mean those who pay you most -- live up the hill!"

Mrs. Delane was clearly offended, and, as usual when offended, insulting.

"Well, what is it?" asked the doctor, entirely ignoring the last speech.

Mrs. Delano's dignity struggled for one instant with her overwhelming desire to speak. Then, flinging herself heavily into a rocking-chair, she began, very hurriedly and very defiantly: -- 

"You told me I ought to answer that letter, so I obeyed you. I wrote to Mrs. Russell by Wednesday's steamer and told her to come at once, if she wished to see her husband alive."

"Ach, so!"

Such a so had never before sounded in Mrs. Delane's ears. She brought up the rocking-chair with a sudden jerk, and stared at the doctor. He was viciously hitting his boot with a little bamboo switch.

"It isn't my fault, doctor," she began. "You told me to write, so I wrote. And as I wrote it came to me that here was a good chance of mending two people's lives, of reconciling them to each other in death, if not in life, of letting the child see her father again. I asked her to come at once, and wrote to Mrs. Knox in Amoy to telegraph to Hakodate that a letter was coming. I acted on your responsibility, doctor!"

Dr. Gregorius had stood up as she was speaking, and was now turning the handle of the door.

"I've done right, haven't I? Come to dinner this evening and we will talk it over. See, I was looking out some crape for her!" cried Mrs. Bridget, now really alarmed at the silence of Gregorius.

The rocking-chair went down with a bang, and Mrs. Delane positively flung herself upon the doctor's arm.

"Done right?" he said. "Oh yes, of course you have done right? You always do when you play the part of a special Providence!"

He looked her calmly in the face as lie said this, so calmly that Mrs. Delane never suspected the genuineness of his praise.

But as he went down the hill Eugen Gregorius debated with himself whether in some cases killing should be reckoned as murder.

CHAPTER V.

"Doctor, I wish I hadn't followed your advice and written to Mrs. Russell to come! Suppose she goes on here as she did in Shanghai?"

Poor Dr. Gregorius had heard this speech many, many times since Mr. Delane, returned from Kelung, had ventured on the unwise remark that it would be amusing to have another woman in the place. He had suffered much for this indiscretion, had the unfortunate Commissioner, and so had the doctor. Mrs. Bridget was beginning to see there were other sides to the question.

"I suppose she will go to Kelung with her husband," Gregorius used to answer quietly.

"Oh yes, of course. How I wish she were here! Do you know, doctor, that I am afraid she will not be kindly received down at the Customs? I am quite astonished at Mrs. Slade's narrow-mindedness. And Mrs. Lucas is nearly as bad. Such a sad lack of Christian charity! As if any one whom I choose to associate with was not good enough for them, forsooth!"

Thus it had gone on, the interminable round of platitudes, the repetition of heartless gossip, of spiteful innuendo, right up to the day of Mrs. Russell's arrival. And from the Commissioner's house Eugen Gregorius had been obliged to pass to Cyril Russell's bed to read the reproach in the sick man's eyes, and to feel that, in spite of his solemn asseverations to the contrary, his patient more than half believed that he, Gregorius, was responsible for this coming. For the doctor, in a cowardly moment, shrinking from dealing the blow, had agreed to allow Mrs. Delane to break the news to Cyril. How she had done her work he had never enquired; how she was capable of doing her task had never dawned on him until it was too late. Unfortunate Gregorius, with no consolation but an extra three fingers in his long glass!

Cyril Russell was nearly well when Mrs. Delane rushed in haste down the hill to tell him his wife was on board the steamer lying outside the bar waiting for the tide to turn. Should she send out the launch to bring her in? Or, better still, should she go out herself to fetch her?

The sick man rose with an effort, and towered, shakily, above Mrs. Bridget. She wished he had stayed in his chair! If there was one thing she disliked, it was being overshadowed.

"Mrs. Delane," he said, slowly and distinctly, bringing out each word with an effort, "I must beg you not to interfere at all in my family affairs. I myself will send and fetch my wife and child. I do not wish her to see you at all."

And send and fetch her he undoubtedly would have done, had not his legs suddenly given way under him, and he had clutched wildly at Mrs. Delane herself as he felt himself sinking back, with a roaring in his ears and a pinky light before his eyes that suddenly went out into black darkness.

Mrs. Delane had saved his fall. He was in his armchair once more, but speechless. And she left him thus to make her own arrangements for his welfare.

* * * * *

So this was the woman about whom they had made such a fuss in Shanghai! A fuss to the extent of losing a life! Mrs. Delane had always, with what seemed to her ample reason, despised Shanghai taste. For they had never appreciated her there! Here, then, was a specimen of their "beauty!" Mrs. Delane felt a kindliness engendered by an immense relief, by an absolute assurance that there was nothing to dread from this woman, the minute she set her eyes on Mrs. Russell's face.

Two years of poverty, of shame and of loneliness had played the very devil with that once pretty face. Add to this that Mrs. Russell had been horribly sea-sick crossing from Amoy, and there is small reason to wonder that she looked sallow and dowdy. Her hair strayed untidily around her face, her dress was stained and shabby. The eyes were still lovely, but oh, so heavy and despairing, with such dark rings under the long lashes! A cold chill ran down Mrs. Delane's back. It was as though grave-clothes had been suddenly opened and she was facing a ghost.

Moreover, Mrs. Russell utterly declined all offers of hospitality from the Commissioner's wife. She had come to see her husband, and she wished to do so at once. She did not even seem to notice that she was no longer "Mrs. Smith" but "Mrs. Russell" to them all. She went off in the doctor's boat, leaving the amah to follow with all she had on board.

"There's something queer about her," Mrs. Delane confided to Mrs. Slade, who was awaiting her by order on the Customs' jetty. "I shouldn't wonder if she drank. And, bless my soul, I've come away without looking at her luggage and her child! I must send for the amah to-morrow."

CHAPTER VI.

Back to Kelung they had gone, the Russell-Smith family! And this without so much as saying "with your leave" or "by your leave" or even "goodbye!"

Mrs. Bridget was thoroughly disgusted when the news came to her next morning with her early coffee. She at once ordered the Commissioner to order them back, and to dispatch a special messenger for that purpose.

"But I can't, my dear," Mr. Delane urged nervously. "Kelung is his post. I didn't send him there; the I.G. did. You must apply to the I.G. if you wish him transferred."

He was swallowing his coffee at a choking rate, anxious to get out of the room. A scalded mouth was a small price to pay for deliverance.

"Hm!" said Mrs. Bridget tartly. She didn't quite see her way to writing to the I.G. But there were plenty of ways of making Mr. Delane do so.

Just for the present, however, there was nothing to be done or heard. Gregorius was away at Kelung too, and made a pretty long stay at Twatutia on his way back. Nor, when he came, could she induce him to say anything about the Bussells.

And yet Dr. Gregorius might have told her much, if he had only chosen.

To him it had been a ghastly shock, a scene never to be forgotten, that meeting between the husband and the wife, between two people who had once held the whole world cheap in comparison with their great love for each other. There was still the love -- or was it love? Was it not rather the despairing cringe for the master's lash, for anything, blows, insults, curses, anything except to be ignored? -- on the wife's side. But on Cyril's side there was -- nothing; absolutely no response. Indeed, save for a slight drawing-in of the lips, save for a faint tremble in the thin hands clutching the arms of the chair, there was no outward sign that he marked her presence. When she came forward and flung herself at his feet and kissed his hands, he did not draw them away. They only fell limp, lifeless, when she let them go, and when, regardless of the presence of Gregorius, trying to efface himself through the doorway, she moaned out: -- 

"You will forgive me, Cyril? Please, please do."

"Gregorius, I am tired. Send the boy to help me to bed." And without deigning a glance at the now sobbing woman, Cyril Russell walked into his own room, and locked the door behind him.

Busen Gregorius stood still in the doorway, and looked with wondering eyes on Mrs. Russell.

She was sitting in a heap on the floor, her face resting on the empty armchair, sobbing bitterly. The doctor could see the tears running down through her fingers, and hear them drip, dripping on the matting-covered floor. He was unused to a woman's tears, and they affected him strangely. His naturally tender heart melted at the sight of this great wretchedness, and an anger against Cyril, and a pity for Cyril's wife, took possession of him, utterly driving out all thought of the miserable past that had been the cause of the misery of this meeting.

"Mrs. Russell," he said, coming forward, after having tried in vain, by sundry coughings and sneezings, to make known his presence, "you had better go to bed now. Your husband is weak and tired. You should not have excited him to-night."

Mrs. Russell caught the note of sympathy in his voice at once, and lifted up a tear-stained face to him. Then she sadly shook her head.

"You are kind, doctor, but you are wrong. He will never, never forgive me. I know him; and I read it in his face this evening. I wish I had never been born!"

What more the doctor might have volunteered by way of sympathy it is impossible to say, for at that moment the door was thrown open, and a girl of some sis or seven years dashed into the room, followed by an amah carrying a solemn infant of some sixteen or eighteen months. An infant with its mother's eyes, but with those eyes without soul and without expression. And as he looked at it Eugen Gregorius with a sudden revulsion of feeling grasped the fact that the wrong Mrs. Russell had done her family was one neither husband nor child could lightly forgive, one for which she herself should never have asked forgiveness.

The sins of the parents are still visited upon their innocent children. Frank Harrison's child was a hopeless imbecile.

* * * * *

"Master talky, wanchee see baby," whispered the boy to the doctor.

"What is your name?" Gregorius asked the little girl, in an ingratiating tone. She was a pert, spoilt Eastern child, who had been thumping her mother to induce her to lift up her head, whining "Mummy! Mummy!" without ceasing. She now looked at the doctor, with one finger in her mouth, her head tilted on one side.

"Ida Russell," she said. "Why?"

"Come with me, and I will tell you a secret," the doctor answered, in what he meant to be a wheedling voice. And with some difficulty he got her out of the room, and delivered her to the boy, to be conveyed to her father.

Then he returned to the parlour, where the amah had managed to soothe and smooth Mrs. Russell down. The baby had been transferred to its mother's knee, and the amah was briniiing in some of her numerous packages. Mrs. Russell was quiet now, had once almost smiled, when the door was again flung violently open, and Ida, pursued by the boy, flew to her mother and clutched her tightly.

"He told me I was going to see Father!" she cried, stamping her foot at the doctor, who had unwisely shewn signs of drawing near. "And it wasn't Father at all! A hateful, ugly man who wanted to kiss me, and then called me a little liar because I said we had a baby "

"Hush!"

But when Mrs. Russell looked anxiously round to see if Dr. Gregorius had heard, he was nowhere to be seen. He was in Cyril Russell's room, by his bedside.

"What do you want, Gregorius?" came from under the sheet.

"I came to see if you wanted anything," answered the doctor, with an attempt at jocularity. "Have you any orders to give?" You are almost out of my hands as a patient now."

The sheet was impatiently kicked off, and Cyril Russell sat' bolt upright, looking straight into the doctor's eyes.

Gregorius flinched. Cyril's eyes were hard and stony, the eyes of a man grown desperate. Such must have been his eyes two years ago, when --

"I ask you as a favour (he stressed on the last word) to convey me, and Mrs. Russell and her family, to Kelung to-morrow. And then please forget us, as I shall try to forget the mischief you have done me."

The doctor was stung out of all self-control by Cyril's words. All his Teutonic views of chivalry, of suffering misunderstanding for a woman's sake, went to the wall. Why, indeed, should lie be misunderstood for the sake of a Mrs. Delane?

"Before God, Smith," he said solemnly, "I never did nor wished to do you any mischief. It has been entirely Mrs. Delane's doing from beginning to end."

"Ah, that is German fashion, is it not? to shelter yourself behind a petticoat," sneered Russell. "Tell that to the woman you have brought to curse my eyes with; she may believe you! But remember that though she is dead to me, she can never be alive to any one else. My love for her is dead, but no one else shall ever love her. She shall be as wretched as she has made me. Now go and tell her that!"

Then it dawned upon Eugen Gregorius that Cyril Russell was trying to quarrel with him.

"You shall go to Kelung to-morrow," he said quietly. "I will take the journey upon myself."

And that was how the Russell-Smith family went to Kelung.

CHAPTER VII.

And was there then no place of repentance for Sybil Russell, though she sought it diligently and with tears?

None, so far as Gregorius could see, when he went over to visit Keluug some three months later, in the fever-reeking month of September. Mrs. Delane had gone to Kelung in the meanwhile, and had returned breathing out threatenings and slaughters. What had exactly happened on that trip never transpired, but the doctor gathered enough from the hints and accusations which she freely dropped that Mrs. Delane's welcome had been anything but cordial.

"Mr. Russell should certainly be in a madhouse." So she wound up. "As for that baby, it ought to have been put out of the way long ago. A lethal chamber would be the kindest thing for it. Mrs. Russell? She probably drinks, or takes opium if she can't get the liquor. She looks like an opium-eater, and, since she has the tendency, we ought not to wonder at lier taking it, considering the life she leads!"

Mrs. Delane's theories, with which she usually began her sentences, invariably became positive facts as she ended her speeches.

So it was quite decided in the solar system of Hobe, which revolved round Mrs. Delane as its sun, that Cyril Russell's wife was a drunkard, if not a slave to opium. As for Cyril himself, whoever heard of a murderer who was not a brute? They were evidently persons, these two Russells, who were amply fulfilling the promise their past had given.

Dr. Gregorius heard this, as he heard everything else, with an air of studied indifference. He longed to go and find out the truth for himself, but he did not venture to do so. You cannot force yourself upon some one who does not want you; and Eugen knew he was not wanted. And all the time that part of his heart which had been kept tender all these years, almost unbeknown to himself, was aching for the unfortunate pair, -- for the husband with his shattered home and life, but still more for the wife whom the husband so inexorably wished dead.

But the summons to go came at last, as all things come round to him who learns to wait. It came from Cyril Russell himself. The children were down with fever, and the doctor's presence was necessary. The note was ungraciously worded, but that did not matter. The doctor could appreciate the effort it had been to write at all.

They were very ill, those children, and Gregorius had hard work to pull them round. Nor was there, indeed, chance of complete recovery for them without change of air, that almost certain cure for malarial fever. Back to Hobe they mast go with the doctor, and their mother had better come with them. She looked decidedly in need of a change.

Not a word, not a sign, had Cyril Russell vouchsafed to his wife all the four anxious days Gregorius had spent at Kelung. And now, when the doctor made his proposal, he turned on his heel and walked out of the room.

"Nasty man. Father!" repeated little Ida in her shrill voice. "He is always making Mummy cry. You will be glad to get away from him, won't you. Mummy dear? I want to go away, I do, I do!"

Mrs. Russell's face was crimson, but she took no notice of the peevish child. And Gregorius, vexed to his soul, went out to make preparations for the return journey.

"Dr. Gregorius."

Mrs. Russell was behind him. The flush had not yet died out of her face, and her lips were trembling.

"I am not going with you. I will stay and take care of my husband. The amah can look after the children. She is good, and they do not need me now."

"Neither does he," broke from Dr. Gregorius before he could check himself. "He is killing you with his silence. Good God, Madam, is not this life, which he makes you lead, a hell on earth to you? I do not think you deserve this treatment, I cannot believe it is manly, or just!"

Mrs. Russell shook her head sorrowfully. Then she drew herself up, and a flash of pride, a look from the old dead days, passed over her face.

"My husband has been always right, Dr. Gregorius. I am quite satisfied with my life."

But then she broke down again, and whispered with a sob: -- 

"Do you know that, just now, he has nursed Baby quite as much as he has nursed Ida? And this morning he scolded Ida quite sharply for speaking portly to m3. I think I see the beginning of the end."