CHAPTER I

HIS MEN FRIENDS IN CHINA

"He is such a really good fellow," said Forbes, an Outport Consul, in Shanghai for a holiday, though nominally to consult the dentist.

It was that hour of the morning when men are apt to wax affectionate, but it was his being such a warm friend made James Forbes so much liked, far more than his cleverness.

"One would not like to think of Lindsay having his life spoilt," he went on.

"But why should it be spoilt? You say the girl is young, pretty, with something distinctive about her."

"Something decidedly distinctive about her," said Forbes musingly; then looking up and speaking rapidly, "But Lindsay did not like the look of her. He was bitterly disappointed in something. I could not help seeing that, just as I turned to him full of congratulations, for I was greatly taken with his bride's appearance myself. If I were to fall in love that is the kind of girl I should fall in love with, I think. But as I looked round at Lindsay, he, who had been so nervous, had suddenly become calm as a frozen pool, expressionless as the Sphinx, and 'Can I help you with your luggage?' was the sentence with which he greeted the woman, who is to be his wife to-morrow. It seems odd if you think of it," and he gave a little, short laugh, "makes one think of the boy who asked 'Why should a woman be so fond of her husband? He is no relation. Just a man she has picked up somewhere.' "

They all laughed, screamed with laughter, and 'Was the boy genuine? Did Forbes know him? 'Then one of them said gravely, "But Lindsay hasn't picked up this girl just anywhere. He knew her before. He has known her for years in England. He told me so himself."

"I know. That's the oddest part of the story."

"Why so? I don't see anything odd about it. Odder to marry a girl you don't know, I should say."

"God bless my soul, don't you see -- don't you understand? The girl is young, quite young. Old Lindsay has been hoaxing us all, or else he knew her in the shortest of short frocks, coral necklace and all. No! he has married her by advertisement, and didn't want us to know. He didn't know her from Adam and was taken all aback by her appearance."

"Why, he told me all about her," growled rather than spoke another man, "talked to me by the hour as to whether it were wise or not, had known her intimately years ago -- very intimately -- never happened to meet again, had corresponded for two years now, found in her all the same qualities he had always fancied she possessed, regretted only he had not made up his mind sooner, when they were both younger -- "

"She could not well be much younger."

"She had grey eyes and a slight figure."

"She certainly has grey eyes and is slight."

"Well -- well! a trick of arching her eyebrows with a little curve in them, when troubled."

"I noticed it."

"And then in the name of thunder what do you mean by starting a cock and bull story, that Lindsay, the man we all know, the soul of honour, the most refined of men, has told us all a pack of lies, and married by advertisement! Did she look the kind of girl to have dealings with the Matrimonial News?"

"No -- No -- No!" each No louder than the last." That she emphatically did not. That could never be. But, good Heavens, my dear fellow, don't you see -- don't you see "

"I must confess I do not unless that you, like a thundering fool, have gone and lost your heart at first sight to the girl your friend is going to marry, and so out of your own infernal wrongheadedness you fancy Lindsay did not like the looks of a woman he has been in love with for ten years, and whom he described so accurately that even you agree to the truth of his description. The most sensitive of men, naturally Lindsay tried to seem impassive before strangers. The position was an embarrassing one for both. They have not met since ten years ago, she is to marry him to-morrow, and by his own account is shy and apprehensive almost to the point of being morbid. Lindsay himself has been in a perfect fever of anxiety as to whether he is making a great mistake -- asking too great a sacrifice of her and so on. Pah! What fools men are ! But let us, his friends, at least not make it more awkward for two people, who probably anyhow will find a certain amount of difficulty about coming together. On the whole I think he is acting very rationally, and I told him so. The lady has had sufficient experience of life to know her own mind, to have resources in herself, so that the dulness of up-country life should not try her, as it does some women. Her constitution is probably sufficiently seasoned to stand the climate. -- Now, what the devil are you thinking of?" he broke off, observing the other's expression.

"I'm thinking it is very late -- early -- late, and that, as we are not to be married we may as well go to bed," said Forbes. Then, as the two walked away together, he passed his arm through that of Lester, known as the most good-natured man in all Shanghai: "Don't think I don't agree with every word you have been saying. And so I didn't answer you before those other fellows, but the girl who has come out to marry Lindsay, Miss Winifred Ellerslie, cannot be over twenty-two, if she is as much. So what becomes of all the story he has been telling us all, and talking over so earnestly all these weeks, about how he knew her, and all but offered ten years ago!"

"Are you sure?"

"As sure as that Lindsay was surprised -- and not agreeably -- when he saw her."

"Lindsay is a very sensitive fellow," said the other musingly. "How did the girl look? Perhaps he saw something in her eyes on greeting him -- that -- that "

"Well, she looked a little scared, the curve in the eyebrows very perceptible. She looked a little like a girl awaking from a dream."

"Awaking from a dream!" The Scotchman spoke slowly -- then after a long pause with conviction, "Yes, that's what we all do. That's marriage. Well! God help poor Lindsay if he has made a mistake, and is marrying the wrong woman, There isn't the man born who would feel it more. But he'll never let her know."

"Let her know! That girl will hear it in every tone of his voice, feel it in every glance of his eye -- "

"My dear Forbes, you certainly "

"Well, I never saw a girl like her, or so like my ideal, I'll own that much."

"That's just what Lindsay said."

"Did he really? Why should he have looked disappointed then?"

"It must have been your fancy."

"Well -- perhaps it was my fancy. Goodnight."

"Good-night, and don't dream of the bride."

With a parting smile the Scotchman turned under the somewhat gloomy portals of a stately Hong upon the Bund. Next day he as well as Forbes was present as a witness at the wedding, and he thought Forbes must have been mistaken. Lindsay's behaviour as a bridegroom was perfect, so evidently full of consideration for his bride. As for her she appeared absorbed in the ceremony, but it was not an unbecoming absorption, and though she accepted his attentions shyly, she was yet apparently not unpleased. There was however one matter about which he saw Forbes had certainly not been mistaken, the bride was not twenty-two. She was not twenty even. She wore a little grey silk going away dress rather than bridal gown, and a little grey silk bonnet drawn in an old-fashioned style. The very staidness of the dress made her look younger than ever, and her shy glances at the bridegroom had a dewy freshness about them, that spoke her definitely under twenty. Had Lindsay then been inventing, imposing upon them? With the recollection of his manner, and knowing the man intimately as he did, even Forbes could not believe this, so he disposed of the matter for the present as a mystery to which he had no clue, only every now and then recalling with extreme pain Lindsay's quick assumption of impenetrability and his expressionless face as a friendly fellow passenger said to him: "There! that is Miss Winifred Ellerslie." Why it should give himself so much pain he never paused to consider.

CHAPTER II

HER AUNT AND SISTERS AT HOME

"Miss Winifred Ellerslie!' For you, Winnie! Oh! how provoking, nothing for me! And I did hope I was going to get that situation at last," so spoke Millicent, a certified teacher.

"Well, give me another cup of tea before you read it. I must be off," said Agatha, in the Post Office.

"Here, my dear, put these scones in your pocket."

"Oh, thank you, auntie, that will be nice. I wish I were not always so hungry," and she ran away laughing and waving adieux to them all.

"Here, Millicent! it came enclosed to me, 'Miss Ellerslie,' you see. They have written to me to ask about you, and as I certainly can answer all their questions satisfactorily, I think you have got the appointment, my dear, and I am so glad." A shower of soft kisses from the elder Miss Ellerslie, under which Millicent blushed with pleasure.

"Well, that is a good thing. Now, I'm fairly off your hands, auntie, and may expect to be self-supporting for the rest of my life -- bar accidents. Agatha too, I think, is sure to get on. But Winifred -- now don't look at that letter from your stupid old Chinese admirer, for I want to talk to you seriously. You are stronger now. You know you are! And what do you mean to do?"

"Oh, my dear, don't hurry Winnie, I am very glad to keep her with me. And she shrinks from -- "

Winifred coloured and drew long breaths. "It is that, auntie, it is that. Millicent thinks I am idle. I am not idle "

"No, no! I am sure you are not."

"But to go out amongst strangers, as you do! Where no one cares a thing for you!" and the tears streamed down her cheeks.

"Well, I know all about that," said Millicent quietly, whilst the elder lady dried Winifred's tears. "And if I could support you, I would. But you know I can't, and auntie's money dies with her. But though you say you are not idle "

Meanwhile Winifred's eyes had been caught by certain words in the letter, which she had already opened, before Millicent began her lecture. Oh, auntie! auntie!" she exclaimed. "He asks me to go out to China to live with him. And he could not do it more nicely."

Then they all read the letter. "It is very nicely put," said Millicent gravely.

"Are you sure, my dear, this letter is meant for you?" asked Miss Ellerslie hesitatingly.

"Why, auntie, I've been corresponding with him for a year and more -- for a year regularly. And he gave me this watch, and -- why, what an odd thing to ask, auntie! How could there possibly be any mistake? He always writes in that style about me, so respectfully, as if he valued my opinions so much. And is it not nicely worded now? Quite different from other men! I am sure he is. And I should love to go to China. Margery Stafford married and went out to India. But China is further off still. And then to go out to marry a man you don't really know -- for of course it is a long time since I have seen him, and I don't remember him very well. I was only a child then. I recollect I kissed him," and she grew crimson all over, "and I'd like to do it again now!"

Then there was nothing more to be said. And they began to buy the trousseau, or rather to make it. The elder Miss Ellerslie stitched and stitched day after day, whilst the younger Winifred fully earned her title of idle by the way she fell into reveries, and dropped her needle, dreaming of her future husband, and that strange, unknown China. But Millicent even did not scold her, for was not Winnie going to be married, and was it not such a comfort! for the pretty, delicate, indulged youngest child could never have made her living, as even Millicent now admitted to herself. Only Agatha, the post office girl, made them all laugh by saying she did not attach as much importance to letters as they did, and she should prefer a husband asking her in real flesh and blood.

"Just think if when he sees you he does not like you, Winnie. You were nothing but a child you know, when he saw you, and you're such a great tall girl now."

"I'm much prettier now than I was then," said Winnie stoutly.

"Oh yes, you're pretty. But he mayn't like your kind of prettiness," persisted Agatha. "Now I'd much rather marry Millicent than you, yet Millicent is downright plain. I don't think you'll make much of a wife, Winnie."

'Winnie will do her best, dear," said the aunt tenderly, "Don't discourage her. Depend upon it her heart shrinks enough, when she thinks of the long voyage and the unknown life before her. Mr. Lindsay is a good man, a really good man, or I would not have heard of it. And when people love each other" -- Then curiously enough the elder Miss Ellerslie's voice broke down, and she hurried away. Oh! how often her eyes had been blinded by tears, as she stitched at the dainty fineries she herself insisted upon for her niece!

"Yes, but do they? That's what I want to know," persisted Agatha. "Don't you think, Winnie, that you're going to China because you couldn't get into the Post Office, and "

"I'm going to China because Mr. Lindsay loves me and writes for me -- for his wife, not just because I am pretty -- because he doesn't know it, I never would send him even a photograph, because I didn't want him to be influenced by that. He likes my thoughts and feelings -- myself. And I like his! I think he is a real man, not good looking perhaps. He'd never do for a hair dresser's-doll, I'm sure. But he has a beautiful soul, and he is a brave, and kind and chivalrous gentleman, and clever too, though like so many men he makes believe he is not, and does not care for clever things. But I know he does," with a proud emphasis upon the "I."

"You are quite right in all you say of Mr. Lindsay, dearest. I knew him as a boy, and he is all -- all you say."

"Did you know him, auntie?"

"Why Winnie, auntie has told you so before. Why is it, you never take things in? You are always dreaming. Auntie knew him very well -- very well indeed, much better than you, who never saw him but once or twice, when you were a stupid, lanky child, and jumped up and kissed him without his ever asking you."

"Well, you must own, Agatha, he has asked me now to be his wife."

"Yes -- I know he has," grumbled Agatha. "But he'd much better have asked auntie. That is what he ought to have done, if he cared about being happy. And he must be an old stupid to have asked you and not auntie after knowing you both."

"Don't, Agatha, don't," cried the elder Miss Ellerslie, putting her arms round Winifred, kissing her, and then retiring as she so often did now with her eyes welling over with tears, so that only as she left the room she heard the Post Office girl's last shot:

"How do you know the letter was meant for you? Any of the letters, I mean? You're both Miss Winifred Ellerslie."

"But, Agatha, auntie is always called Miss Ellerslie. And he wrote first condoling upon papa's death, and asking whom I lived with now and all. And I answered about the watch he gave me. I did just wonder a little at first how such a grave sort of sentimental letter could really be for me, but I did not ask auntie about it, because I like to be guided by my own judgment. I think it is only right in all difficult cases. I never even asked auntie about going to China and all. I don't think one ought to cast the burden of decision upon other people," and she drew up her slight, girlish figure to its full height, "especially not upon poor, dear auntie, who always finds it so difficult to decide even in the smallest things. And now, how can you, you wicked sister, start such a dreadful idea, as if there could possibly have been any mistake, and when it is too late to change, and I am just going away -- for ever!"

"For ever! As if you were going to die. You'll come back from China, it is not another world. Letters are always going backwards and forwards every day -- at least every week. But I'm very sorry Winnie, dear, and I did not really mean it -- not really. Only -- only it does seem so awfully nice to be going all that long way off, and to marry a man auntie and all say is so delightful, and to have a fine house of your own, and plenty of servants -- a good position -- even a Hong all of your own! and everybody adoring you, when I'm only a Post Office girl! Boo -- boo -- hoo! And I have worked so hard too, and am just as pretty."

Then the two sisters wept in each other's arms with "I know you are," and "I know you have," from Winifred. "So hard! poor, dear Agatha," together with assurances that she would get a delightful husband of her own some day, young and handsome, who'd adore her.

"But he'll be as poor as a church mouse. I know he will," said Agatha. "I've never known a young man yet, who had any money at all, while you're marrying into an assured position and a competence and all. So you must not be surprised if it makes me mad with jealousy at times, Winnie. And seriously you know, a man expects a great deal of his wife, and I believe the climate is horrid, and you'll have no old friends there. So if you don't make up your mind to be cheerful and pleased with him and everything, it won't turn out well in the end. You must not rely too much upon his love. You think I'm very young -- but I know you must not -- not on a man's love. You must make up your mind to be sensible and nice whatever happens, or you'd much better not go."

"I go relying on his love," said Winifred with a far away look in her fine grey eyes, "and I mean to love him so that he shall be quite lapped round with love and notice nothing beyond."

"Some men wouldn't like that at all," persisted the Post Office girl.

CHAPTER III

CHANGING LIFE'S SETTING

And so it came about that when Hugh Lindsay went down to the Tender, and someone he knew among the passengers said to him, "There that is Miss Ellerslie, standing beside the Captain," a sudden change came over his face, which for the moment grew quite grey. In the rush and confusion only Forbes close beside him knew that anything had happened, and even he did not catch Lindsay's muttered "Good God!" After which he went forward a little white perhaps, with a sort of glisten about the eyes, but a smile round the mouth. "Can I help you with your luggage? You have had a good voyage, I am glad to hear!"

And next morning they were married.

"What on earth possessed old Lindsay to talk of having known his future bride ever so many years ago! Leading us to suppose it was some lady advanced in years! And then to spring upon us this beautiful young thing!" men wondered aloud. Sometimes to women. Women were somewhat silent when they did so. For one thing they did not think the new bride so beautiful as the men did, somewhat wanting in colour, and no style at all as they said among themselves. They did not think she would go down in Shanghai, and wondered what men found so interesting in her. Anyway she was not destined for Shanghai society and, after a very few days there, proceeded with her husband to his home in one of the prettiest of China's outports.

Thus Lindsay, the fastidious, with a somewhat overstrained sense of honour -- who had already found the daily friction of life too much for him, and had expected henceforward to wear a woman's tenderness and ready sympathy as a protecting mantle between him and the outside world, who had hoped to have all the little practical worries, the petites miseres of life smoothed away for him by soft but skilful fingers that he knew of old, who had been telling himself day after day, and his friends too for the last six months that the arrangement was a wise and prudent one; yet knowing himself all the while most foolishly and senselessly thrilling over recollections of those same little, clinging but firm fingers held tight in his years ago, over the phantasy of soft rings of hair stroked by him into shape, over the timid glance of eyes that surely ever so many intervening years could not have hardened, and that he never had seen look otherwise than kindly on everyone and everything -- Lindsay found himself all upon a sudden confronted with a young, slight girl, trembling like himself with susceptibilities, full of unspoken but none the less exorbitant demands, and hard with the unsoftened edges of her youthful inexperience. This young girl with the dewy, upward glance pleaded in her every movement for the whole souled love and devotion of a man neither absorbed in another nor in himself. Frank and free herself, she must, he felt, from the outset, intuitively discern a counterfeit. And he knew from the first moment that he laid his hand upon hers caressingly, and her eyes met his for the fiftieth part of a second or rather less, and her hand at once slipped away, that neither now nor ever could he appear anything but counterfeit to her. For she had arrived in China, ready -- nay longing to give her whole heart to a whole hearted man. Whilst he -- was making believe ! It was all he could do for her, poor man! and he did it conscientiouly, inexorably : at once stepped into the position of a man rather older than he really was, somewhat stately and dignified, and -- her husband. And by degrees through a succession of lightning quick glances, followed by drooped eyelids, and the consciousness thereby won, she played up to him, and subsided into the dignified young mistress of his household; that is, she took the head of his table, received his guests well, superintended the flower decorations, and altered the arrangements of the furniture. More than that she could not do, for his servants were first rate, and with regard to every detail "old Custom" was called up to confront her. Only gradually the dinners grew more refined and practical. Lindsay had no fault to find, a woman's delicate fingers were smoothing for him the every day details, imparting just that refinement and air of luxury to his surroundings that he had wished for and never attained.

Yet he felt the burden of life pressing more heavily than ever upon him, embodied in this slight, girlish figure that -- looked at him at times -- rarely and generally when there was company -- with grey eyes that he seemed to remember, together with a little curve in the delicately pencilled brows above them, but with an expression the grey eyes he remembered never could have worn. If only he had not been reminded so daily, hourly, of his first love, the love of his youth, the one love of his life, he might perhaps possibly have been lulled into forgetfulness of her sufficiently to be receptive of the charms of a girl young and lovely and pre-eminently love-able. As it was how could be forget? And each day made him only more in love with his memories! Had he not been a very timid, unsanguine lad, as well as rather a fastidious one, he and Winifred Ellerslie would have parted as affianced lovers ten years before. It was because he remembered her too well he had never fallen in love with any other woman. Once in the interval he had met her cousin with whom she had grown up as a sister until his marriage, on which occasion the youthful Lindsay had figured as best man for want of a better. His bride had already died, and when Lindsay met him again it was with three little girls from whom Lindsay at once selected one, not so much for her looks as because of her name, Winifred Ellerslie, for his attentions. He had given her a watch, and the child had kissed him, and he had never thought of her again. When he began to correspond with Miss Winifred Ellerslie on the occasion of her cousin's death, on which he thought it only fitting to send his condolences, and in her letter there came a reference to his very kind present of a watch so much treasured etcetera, he thought it was like the Winifred he remembered of old to attach so much importance to his gift to a little girl, and wondered whether she had divined that it was for her sake. And though he was occasionally puzzled and somewhat surprised by expressions and opinions in the letters, that then began to pass between England and China, yet again and again there were little turns that the younger Winifred had learnt or inherited from the elder, and that restored his confidence, till the rest was all put down to the inexplicableness of woman -- that mystery, as he knew she was supposed to be, to man. Though for his part he had never seen anything of mystery in the Winifred Ellerslie he remembered. As to the little girl, for him she had never grown older, and he thought of her -- when his thoughts strayed to a possible relationship -- as still always lanky and impulsive. Then with his heart full of love and longing, brimming over with explanations of the little reticences and withdrawals of long ago he hurried to meet his wife -- as he called her in his mind already, never his bride -- and was confronted by the girl -- the child of long ago -- impulsive still though much prettier and grown up, and alas! and alas! and alas! his bride! For a moment it seemed impossible that he could go through with it, as if Fate had played him too terrible a trick. Then the iron entered into his soul, and Lindsay, till now the soul of honour, candid to a folly, went forward to be no longer ever again even an ordinarily true man as long as that young creature and he should both live. No going back, no explanation seemed to him possible. He was at all times rather a silent man, with a difficulty about expressing himself, and looking back upon it all so often afterwards he did not see what else he could have done. Another man might have broken into a horse laugh and said: "I sent for the aunt, and here's the niece. And a devilish pretty girl too. Too pretty for me. Here one of you other fellows, here's your chance. My dear, there has been a mistake, and I'm in love with your aunt." It might have been better there and then to have been thus brutally frank, anyway Lindsay knew he could never have done it. Nor did it seem to him it would have been the conduct of a gentleman. So as a gentleman he, like the Spartan lad, pressed tighter to his bosom the fox that was gnawing his heart out, that is he went forward to the young girl and pressed her hand with as much of the air of a lover as he could command on the spur of the moment.

And since then he had played his part manfully, keeping always to his role. And the very likeness to her aunt was fatal to poor Winifred's chances of success in pleasing him, for where another man would have been most bewitched Lindsay was only ruffled by the difference. The Winifred he -- well! loved was the truth of it, and he knew it but too well now -- would not have done this or that, would not have courted admiration thus, laid herself thus open for compliment, spoken with that rash haste, that decision so unbecoming in one so young. Thus it struck Lindsay though not others. They were bewitched, lavished the admiration he did not feel, paid the compliment that he could not utter and paid it in full too, listened to her opinions admiringly, or laughed at her quickness of speech.

Forbes was, of course, a frequent visitor in their household, he always had been, knew the ways of the house and the qualities and defects of the servants better even than Lindsay himself. He had seen the table change from that rather medley assortment of little glasses, affected by bachelors, each stuffed full of a variety of somewhat incongruous flowers, into a mass of Gloire de Dijons, a creeper lightly laid upon the cloth knitting the whole together, or some colour symphony to be enjoyed rather than described. He had watched and even helped in the transformation of the drawing room. But he had not been present at the one scene between Lindsay and his wife. It was when the drawing-room was first altered. Lindsay came from the flaring sunshine outside into the half light of a verandah darkened room, and before him saw -- Was he gone mad? There stood the girl he remembered, the girl he had loved without knowing it all these years, and yet not just as he remembered her, a little only a trifle fuller in the bosom, a trifle, yes decidedly a trifle sweeter looking even than he remembered her, the cheek a little rounder, the hair somewhat looser on the forehead, all rather with the freedom of the ripened woman, than the austere thinness of the unripened girl, her dress loosely girt in at the still slender waist, and falling in folds over which one could not fancy her tripping in the awkward yet loveable fashion of her girlhood. It was a long photograph panel-shaped, much crayon-coloured, hung above the mantle piece in the place of honour, every decoration of the room leading up to it, and making it appear as the presiding genius of the scene.

Lindsay stood motionless, rooted to the spot. Then "Do you like it?" asked a girlish voice from behind him. "I hope you do. But if not, I can easily put everything back again just as it was before. Only I wanted so to have that picture of auntie -- like a guardian angel. That is what she has always been all my life. It is not just like her, of course. But I have fancied somehow that it might be more as she was when you used to know her. Tell me, had she already got that very -- very kind expression?"

"She always had a very sweet -- kind face."

Even to himself his voice sounded strange, and he turned away as he spoke, so no wonder she followed, trying to look into his face, "I'm afraid you don't quite like this kind of room," said the young wife -- his young wife. And there was a sound as of coming tears in her voice. She had put up that picture as a fetish to bring his love if anything could. She had tried her best as Agatha had told her, to be sensible and nice, but her heart was hungering for a love she knew she was not even approaching getting. That peaceful home-like room, with her dear aunt -- his old friend -- smiling down upon them, if that could not give them peace and a home feeling, what could? But Lindsay was incapable of noticing her changes of tone, as putting a great constraint upon himself he just managed to articulate, "I don't think I do. I am old fashioned -- cling to old things." As he spoke unconsciously he walked up to the picture and looked at it, the sweet, kind face that he found he had forgotten a little -- that was changed somewhat, had alas! grown more than ever into his ideal -- the ideal wife for a man somewhat tired, who had always found life rather much for him.

Now if there was one thing that the others had always granted that Winnie excelled them all in, it was in the arrangement of a room. Millicent had told her more than once she believed she could make a fortune, it she would only go out and give advice to ladies in difficulties, and at home her dictum had been considered absolute on all such matters. No one had ever asked her why-she did this or that, they had only admired and marvelled. Forbes had been the same to-day. After his first start of astonished admiration he had simply made himself her head assistant, and admired, all the while finding meanings and reasons for her adjustments, that she herself had never thought of, but which she had fully appreciated and greatly enjoyed when thus revealed to her. But now her husband -- her husband had no word of praise, seemed to see nothing but the one picture.

"You are not meant to look at it like that," said Winifred. "You should see it with the whole room, as just the centre of it, pervading it all. Do you not like the room?"

"I -- I cannot sit in a room like this," stammered Lindsay, hardly knowing what he was saying, and beyond his own control for the moment.

"Stand here," she cried impatiently, waving him back.

"I see -- I see the picture," stammered Lindsay, "Where my wife's should be."

"Hung by my hand," cried the deeply wounded girl -- as she walked past him, sprang upon a chair, and actually tore the picture from its frame. "You see a blank now where your wife's picture ought to hang. And the whole room is nothing now," she cried looking round it in vexation, then disappeared abruptly.

Lindsay knew that he ought to follow her, ought at once, by loving words and still more loving caresses, to soothe away the hurt he had not meant to give, not waiting for it to fester and strike deeper. But like many men in the East he had got into the habit of putting off, and trying to get round difficulties instead of facing them. He told himself now it was better to let her calm down, recover from her -- agitation. And he did not hasten, but stood still staring at the blank on the wall -- realizing every moment more the blank in his life. She could never have done a thing like that. He stooped and picked up the little torn bits of paper and frame, and wondered how hands that looked so frail, could have exercised so much violence, yet manlike never delved deep enough to divine what had been the inspiring cause of so much energy. And when, in the evening, he found the room all transformed again, Chinese embroideries hang ing on the walls, the scheme of colour all Chinese, and his best plates in patterns on the walls, meaningless but full of colour, Winifred herself in a particularly brilliant costume leaning back on cushions with her hands clasped behind her head asking him a little indifferently, if he liked the room better now, he only congratulated himself on finding that she was not of a sullen temperament, and that if she had her tempers evidently they were quickly over Whilst after a second or two she appeared livelier than he had yet seen her, so that he even ventured on a compliment.

"But you are a regular little enchantress, twist my old room backwards and forwards, transforming it at every turn."

"And for the life of me I can't see how it is done," said Forbes, who was sitting on the sofa beside her, very busy bending a flowering spray after the Japanese fashion. He was always there for five o'clock tea now. The two men had been great friends before. In a small Port men are apt to see each other every day or never. They are either great friends, or -- annoy each other considerably. Forbes had got into the way of dropping in every day for five o'clock tea, and then generally the three took a stroll together, or sometimes Forbes and Winifred played Tennis. Lindsay did not play. To-day, however, he went to look on at their game. For it had entered into his head for the first time to consider whether his wife might not possibly have something of the flirt in her composition. Surely she was to-day quite unnecessarily brilliantly dressed, surely she moved her hands from the wrists and touched flowers with her finger tips in a way which he had seen French ladies do in pictures. Was she possibly laying herself out for Forbes' admiration? Was Forbes possibly admiring? It had never occurred to him to think of all this before, never occurred to him now to think that it might all be done with a view to himself, that it was possible for a wife, who felt she had not got them, to try by the same arts by which women more generally try to attract other men, to ensnare a husband's love and admiration. What a thing it is to go on living forty-eight years in China, away from all women relations, or old friends, absorbed in increasing your business! This self absorption is often looked upon as a virtue. "I never go outside the Compound" says a missionary lady with much the same air with which a poor women in a noisy street in London will often say, "I make no acquaintances." Both find it quite enough to look after their own affairs, and though the affairs of one may be higher than those of the other, the spirit is the same. Lindsay had always been liberal and considerate towards everyone he came in contact with; but he had never till now thought about other people at all, would indeed have reckoned it rather an impertinence to consider their characters, and what grieved or pleased them.

Once he wandered away from the game, and looked at his transmogrified drawing room. It was indeed a change Winifred had wrought there. But the room looked dead, absolutely dead now, without the brightly dressed girlish figure in the centre of it. And as he looked, it dawned upon him that all the ornamentation had led up to herself this time. And with a rush of strange, over mastering sensations he realised that the room, that she had first devised, had been the room that was really to his taste, that he should have liked for his living room, presided over, inspired by his ideal woman. Suddenly a cold chill seemed to penetrate to the very marrow of his bones, and he went out for a quiet walk by himself, the two playing tennis quite forgotten.

"I met Mr. Lindsay by himself alone again to-day," said Mrs. Kitley. "Poor man! It is a mistake to have married so young a wife. Still she might keep up appearances a little."

People were beginning to talk already. In a small Port they would really have nothing to say if they did not talk of one another. Still it has to be done with great care. People are all so thrown together, and you must count upon everything being repeated.

CHAPTER IV

THE BRIDE'S HOME COMING

Ports in China differ considerably. That, where Lindsay's Hong was situated, is perhaps the liveliest of the smaller ports. There foreigners all live together on a little island, the great dirty Chinese city lying across the water where the men's counting houses also are. The men cross the mouth of the river, or the inlet of sea, as you like to call it, every morning, whilst their wives, if they have any, remain behind in flower-encircled villas, that to the eye suggest Palaces of Delight, yet sometimes also give the idea that the sleeping beauty within may be waiting somewhat longingly for the fairy prince to come and waken her. Perhaps, for this very reason, it is not like some ports rich in scandals, dark tragedies of which no one in China ever knows the real mot de l'enigme, but over which someone in Europe has probably shed bitter tears enough, and which are related by people at a loss for conversation, gaining at each repetition in unlikeness to truth in spite of the accompanying assveration that it is all really quite true, people apparently never realising that you may relate a truth so as to make it most untrue, just as you may tell a fairy tale so as to make it appear like reality.

When Winifred first arrived it seemed to her as if she had straightway stepped into a fairy tale. The voyage from Shanghai had been rough, and there had been a certain dignified restraint about Lindsay's kindness, that had pleased the highly strung girl, who would have shuddered away from an officious, demonstrative husband in the malaise that overcame her on the short choppy China sea, even after the long six weeks' voyage from England. Then they passed among the islands, and the sun shone, and the rocks became wilder and wilder in their fantastic shapes and huge size, while the foam shewed out white and sparkling against the low cliffs, till, as they got further in, the sea only lapped languidly upon the shore. They were passing by vessels each with an individuality of its own, and Mr. Lindsay was telling her to what line each belonged, what it carried, and where it came from, as if they were all old friends. Everyone seemed to be an old friend, everyone seemed to be glad to see him. People looked at her curiously, shook hands friendlily, then turned to congratulate Lindsay once more -- this time more heartily. Everyone's boat was at his service, champagne was handed round, there were bunches of flowers till she could hold no more; then there were men in fresh white clothes with broad blue borders, and blue tassels covering all their queer, conical hats -- Lindsay's livery this -- kneeling before her and bowing their fore-heads to the deck, good-byes from the captain and officers, all so kind and like old friends to her now, then cheers! Ringing cheers! Cheers, and a shower of flowers! And they went on shore in a beautiful boat, Lindsay's own! Oh! that Millicent and Agatha could have seen her then!

But then came the new experience, sedan chairs, in which they were carried stilly, swiftly, and oh, so comfortably. They passed through a gate, under a dark archway of overhanging trees. Violets surely, what sweet scent! Quickly out into the sunshine again, and flowers, flowers everywhere, perfuming all the air with sweet scents unknown to her! The sedan chairs put them down at the foot of a flight of steps. And there was Mr. Lindsay helping her out: "Welcome home, Winifred!" Then all the servants in a body in the veranda kneeling, and knocking their heads, or otherwise welcoming her! And a great burst of crackers from the rosy looking strings hanging from the trees, from the eaves, from everywhere at once. And drooping across the entrance door by which they had to go in, a great garland of roses. "All the same Klissmuss" said the head man, whom Lindsay told her to call Boy. He had been over twenty years in Lindsay's service, and was evidently very proud of the rose garland, explaining how Mississy This, and Mississy That had helped with it, and sent flowers from their gardens, declaring that it was "old Custom," and English brides must have roses. The Boy was evidently delighted thus to show that he knew English customs.

But before passing under the roses, Winifred stood on the veranda gazing at the different views. They had come up by the Sedan or carriage drive with its separate short flight of steps entering the veranda from one end, but from the dark grove of trees they had passed underneath there was another long straight flight of steps coming like a dart right into the middle of the veranda, and as it did so connecting three separate terrace gardens set out with large terra cotta pots full of flowers, and flowering shrubs. And down either side of this flight of steps there was a triple row of pots full of flowers, ordinary garden pots where the flight was steep, and large terra cotta pots, matching those on the terraces, at each terrace landing. Below waved the green tree tops, and across the tree tops Winifred looked over the Island towards its highest hill with a remarkable group of large rocks crowning its summit. There to the left Mr. Lindsay pointed out to her the trees of the Consulate, where Forbes lived, trying to make her remember him amongst the many friends that had greeted them in Shanghai. But Winifred could not remember him. "There were so many," she said. Then over their own flat bit of garden lying still further to the left they looked out on to the sea, the masts of the vessels in harbour, and beyond them the mainland with graves spread out upon it, white and flat, like clothes laid out to dry, and beyond them again the trees of a famous Buddhist Monastery.

"Oh, but we must go out into the garden -- your garden," cried Winifred eagerly.

"Our garden," corrected Lindsay, "or rather yours now, for the flower garden should always be the lady's especial property."

Winifred did not listen to him. She was taking possession already, smelling this, admiring that.

"There is another garden on the other side of the house," explained Lindsay, "and a Tennis ground beneath it, and -- "

"Oh, but my poor flowers in the house," cried Winifred interrupting him, "they will all be dying."

"The Boy will see to them," said Lindsay.

The Boy seemed to see to everything. There was five o'clock tea set out, when they returned to the veranda, and again cakes made by different ladies of the community to celebrate the home coming of Lindsay's bride.

"How kind everyone is!" exclaimed Winifred. "How I shall love them all! And how I ought to love you for getting me all this kindness!" and she twined her arms round him almost after the impulsive fashion of long ago, when he had given her the watch, that was ticking now in her belt. She had not once forgotten to wind it up since she arrived in China! Lindsay's eyes filled with quick, warm tears, as he drew her closer towards him, patted her soft hair, and kissed her soft, girlish cheek. "My dear Winnie, you will soon win love enough for yourself. Why you will be the little Queen of the place. There is no one like you here, no one! Indeed, I never saw anyone like you anywhere."

"Not anywhere?" asked the girl, looking up at him with that little curve in the brows he knew so well. "Am I not rather like what auntie used to be? Prettier I believe -- " with a little blush and a half modest half exultant look out of her eyes, that any lover must have found absolutely bewitching.

"Much prettier," answered Lindsay firmly. "Yes -- Miss Ellerslie was like you. But she never was -- really pretty."

Yet he looked away and on the ground as he spoke, not at the girl beside him, blushing with self-consciousness, sparkling with animation, and at that moment ready to give her whole heart, her whole life to the grave, elderly man beside her, to whose life, to use one of her own similes, she wanted to be like a monthly rose tree, day by day putting out fresh shoots and fresh pink blossoms here one and there another.

"Am I really pretty then?" she asked, laughingly, forcing him to look once more at her herself.

"Why, you are lovely, perfectly lovely -- and so bewitching," replied Lindsay. "I feel, dear Winifred, I never ought to have married you. I had no idea -- "

Then she put her arms round him once again, and kissed him on the lips this time to prevent his saying anything more. After that she slid her little hand into his like a little child, and they went in shyly under the garland of roses. The house looked somewhat dark coming in from the world of flowers and scents and sunshine outside. But the Boy had already made it gay with the various bouquets, all duly put into water, besides having before that done his best to decorate it for the bride's home coming with a quaint admixture of his own Chinese ideas and those of various Mississies whom he proceeded to enumerate. It seemed every lady in the little community had been for a week past contemplating Lindsay's house and considering what should be done.

"To-morrow they will all come to call," said Lindsay. "I said we should like one day to ourselves."

Winifred gave him an expressive glance of gratitude. But there were all her boxes arriving, and Mr. Lindsay felt it his duty to consult her about the arrangement of the house. She however could think of nothing but the views just then, and it became evident at once that she was already in love with that over their own flower garden and the ships below, and the wild barren mountains, treeless but grave clad on the opposite shore.

CHAPTER V

VAIN QUESTIONINGS

Day after day on the verandah a young- girlish figure with hands clasped looked out to sea across the flowers and tree-tops. Lindsay left home directly after breakfast for his office, returned for tiffin, then off again, and back somewhat late for five o'clock tea, Winifred superintending his various goings and comings, and admiring his sedan chair, as yet a novelty. He used to ask was she always on the verandah? But indeed she was. Sometimes pacing up and down, with hands clasped, sometimes leaning over the railing with a rosebud dangling between her fingers or a spray of heliotrope, pausing now and again over a pot brimming over with Freesias to inhale more intensely some of the delicious perfume with which the whole air was laden, and thinking, always thinking! There was nothing to be done in the house, which went on as if by clockwork. No one was intimate enough to drop in in the mornings as yet. Only in the afternoon could the various calls be returned. Oh! those long, long hours of idleness on the part of brides in the East are terrible things! The husband whose conduct can stand the ordeal of their scrutiny had needs be perfect indeed. And Lindsay's had one initial and capital defect. He did not ring true. Yet he seemed to be a true man. And the young bride was not disposed to be a captious critic. She had written home long letters, describing the flowers and the mountains, the one walk round the Island, short but full of infinite variety, according as to whether the sun shone on this mountain or on that, whether the sea lapped almost against the roadway, or left great tracts of seaweed-covered rocks bare and glittering. She had described her surroundings, leaving out always the central figure -- herself! and writing but one short sentence about her husband, "Mr. Lindsay is kindness itself." She thought so when she wrote it. But as the days went on and she began to realise that what love making there had been had all been on her side, the poor young thing began to hunger for a caress, were it even a hand clasp, betokening affection. She remembered Agatha's advice, her own good resolutions, she flew to kiss him on his returns, turned up her face like a good child at his departures! Whilst he kissed her ceremoniously, punctiliously at first, then somewhat less as if it were an ordeal, affectionately indeed, but always without a trace of love or emotion. She, who had grown up accustomed to sisters' twining arms round her, to sisterly hugs and scoldings, to her kind aunt's tender words, and yet tenderer caresses, felt frozen even in the China sunshine -- starved! Was he really kind? she asked herself sometimes with head down drooped, one large, salt tear after the other dripping drearily upon the flowers falling from her fingers. Why had he asked her to come from her own home if it were only for this? How differently his letters had read! She had no heart to look at them now. She had brought them all out to China tied round with a rose satin ribbon. She often wondered now how the man she knew ever came to write them, what he could have thought of her replies. She could never write such letters to him now again. She wondered had his letters really been what she remembered. But that rose satin ribbon seemed to mock her in memory, and she felt that she could not have touched it now even to untie it.

Yet she argued with herself up and down the veranda, up and down, and leaning over and looking out over the tree tops,had she not everything she could desire? A beautiful house! an enchanting garden! Views more beautiful than she had dreamt of, and, besides their beauty, filled with a certain strangeness that moved her heart with longing. Then she thought of the servants, so exemplary, discharging their duties so well, and contrasted them with the one general servant whom they all helped to do her work at home -- her old home! What had she to complain of? Nothing! Nothing! Nothing of course! said the poor girl, wringing her hands in her contrition. He is always willing for me to do everything I wish. He only goes away from me so much because he is obliged, not because he likes to do so, and if he is satisfied to have so little from me- -- if it suits him -- I -- I -- I ought, as Agatha said, to be -- very cheerful and pleased with him and everything. And she picked him a button hole through her tears, wired it, then ran to wash the traces of tears away, and came back with a flaming colour and a smile to hand Lindsay his button hole and pin it on herself. As she did so Lindsay held her head between his two hands, and lightly kissed the top of it. The girlish head drooped lower and lower. Had she been thinking all those thoughts, and he was so kind -- really loved her after all? The next minute she had hidden her face on his shoulder sobbing convulsively.

Lindsay was inexpressibly distressed. Never in all the course of his life before had he seen a lady cry, and that it should be his young wife who appeared so heart-broken ! In his horror he began to take thought for her, as he had not yet done. "This life is too dull for you -- too lonely! I ought to have thought of it sooner. Of course a young girl like you! You want -- -young companions -- games and things. I ought -- Forbes has come back -- I will ask him round to play tennis with you this afternoon."

That was the beginning of it. Winifred's heart received a great blow, which had much the same effect upon it, that it would upon her head, if someone suddenly stunned her. That he, her husband, should think she needed young people to play with her! It steadied her at once! She even smiled, and, extraordinary to relate, rallied him upon not being able to play tennis himself. Was Mr. Forbes so much younger? No! but Forbes was altogether different. And altogether different Winifred found him, from the first moment when she greeted him, and his eyes rested upon her face, then returned with a scrutinising expression, having evidently in that first glance learnt more than Lindsay had ever even looked for.

At first, however, it answered beautifully. Forbes soon lured them to the recreation ground, and Winifred got quite excited playing now with this now with that one. She did not play tennis well, had had but little practice so far, therefore it was all the more novel to her, and steadily improving made it the more interesting. At first Lindsay-would stay and look on, and sometimes even he would be induced to play croquet. But on this Winifred would insist on playing croquet too. Lindsay did not enjoy it, and it was evident that Winifred also did not care for it, as she did for tennis. So more and more he excused himself, and went off for his old quick constitutional round the Island. He said he did not mind going alone, liked to walk faster then Winifred could. At first she and Forbes used to hurry off to meet him on his return and come back with him. Thus for a few minutes each day Winifred walked alone with Forbes. With her husband she walked in the company of his friend, the Consul. Forbes got into the habit of dropping into dinner very frequently. When he did not dine with them, they not uncommonly dined with him. His garden sloped down to the sea. From his drawing room you looked across the garden at the moonlight on the sea. He had a round window, which was overshadowed, garlanded, loaded with glowing purple Bougainvillia. He had to cut it away as a weed at times. Winifred had a fancy for the colour, and each day that she dined there someone laid a spray by her plate, which she twined about her hair or in her dress.

Forbes said he had never cared for the flower before; now Winifred's grey eyes brought out its meaning, and enhanced its glow as of rich wine.

Thus day by day passed and husband and wife were never alone together, and liked it best so. Yet Winifred felt she would have missed it, if she had never been alone with Forbes. But never a day passed that she was not, either among the Freesias on the Verandah of her dreams before Lindsay had returned from his office, or at the far end of Forbes' garden by the sea waves lapping gently on the shore, or in his flower garden gathering a posy, or on the road round the Island hurrying along to meet Lindsay.

Some people said Mrs. Lindsay was too lightly dressed for this evening walk after being heated by tennis. Everyone looked on as at a drama, Forbes was the very popular Consul, Lindsay the respected head of the oldest established business house on the Island, Winifred -- the prettiest woman among them. Yes! they were all agreed about it -- she was very pretty and she had a charm. She was the most admired woman on the Island. All the men said so always. And all the ladies agreed. But they watched, not unkindly, some of them indeed rather sorrowfully. No one said much as yet. But it was generally understood something might be expected to follow. "And it would be such a pity -- break up society so. Perhaps Mr. Forbes may be sent to another Port."

"Oh, but that would be a pity too. We should never get such a nice Consul again."

CHAPTER VI

THE BALL AT THE CONSULATE

It was after the scene about the drawing-room, which he did not witness, that Forbes sent out invitations for his ball. They always call them balls in outports in China, however small they may be. Only in Shanghai is there a large enough society for people to give little dances. An outport is always trying to make itself appear considerable, and it talks about "our races" and "our last ball" till you can hardly believe it when you learn that only about eight men keep ponies in the place, and that there are much the same number of dancing ladies. But Lindsay's Port was old established, and peculiarly fortunate just then in that the Commissioner's wife had a governess for her children, and a merchant's wife had a sister staying with her on a visit. There were also at least nine dancing wives to begin with, without including Mrs. Annesley, who might always be counted upon for a square dance or two, and enjoyed them. So Forbes' ball was to be quite a grand affair, Chinese lanterns all up the garden walk and festooned among the trees, and the ball-room decorated as never had a ball-room on the Island been decorated before, for all the gardens contributed of their best, and Winifred presided with her fanciful ideas and unrivalled taste.

It was her first ball, but she did not think it necessary to tell her China friends this, as she dressed herself in a state of feverish excitement, then floated into the room on her husband's arm looking like a Peri, or a spirit, more than a mortal woman. He himself was struck by her spiritual appearance, as he stood back and watched her, torn from him at once by an impatient partner, and floating round the room, her light willowy figure moving with the music, her eyes gleaming, her lips lightly parted. Lindsay stood in a corner looking graver and stockier than he usually did, as he realised as so often before that there could be no natural affinity between that light, graceful, pre-eminently youthful creature and his own grave, disillusioned self, and once again over him -- as so often over Winifred -- came the heart hunger, as he thought of a soft, friendly hand he remembered so well, patting his, and a woman with the kindest of kind eyes standing by his side with a little smile watching the young people enjoy themselves but ready to go home with him at once, finding her pleasure in doing so, as he too would find his pleasure in it. For his business had not been doing well of late, a Chinese in whom he felt special confidence had suddenly left his employ, he could not think why, and he felt weary and particularly disinclined for sitting up late. Now of course it would be his duty to stay to the bitter end. Though Winifred had come back after her first dance, and passing her arm through his pleaded "Won't you take one turn -- not even one little bit of a turn with me?" then whispered in his ear as they circled round the room, "Recollect I am ready to go home the very first minute you wish."

"Oh you must stay to the end. They would all be disappointed if you went," said Lindsay gravely, then roused himself to smile as she bestowed a radiant smile upon him, whilst whirled away once again. She was dancing now with one of the best-looking young men in the place, six feet four and well proportioned. Lindsay thought how well they looked matched. People must think him and his wife a sadly incongruous pair, not sadly though -- ludicrously of course. He hated to be laughed at, and moved uneasily at the idea. Then he looked back at Winifred and her partner once more. They had paused from the dance, and he noticed the little curve in his wife's eyebrows very pronounced. She evidently was not enjoying her partner's conversation. "No, she would not like Jones! Not much brains there," thought Lindsay grimly to himself, and reflected that she might even be expected to prefer his own conversation.

But now Winifred was dancing with Forbes, dancing very slowly after the Shanghai fashion, and as they danced he was talking to her, quoting poetry it seemed, for as they paused these words were wafted to Lindsay: "The red rose dreams of June -- the white rose sleeps, The nightingales are dumb, and in the dark The brown thrush waits the prelude of the lark."

They had ceased dancing and gone out into the night together among the Chinese lanterns and the sweet scent of the flowers, and as her dress almost brushed her husband Winifred had not even noticed him, as she looked up at Forbes with an expression that her husband did not even know.

It was with no intention of following them that Lindsay too passed out into the night, but to -- to place that picture with no one able to study his face as he did so. Forbes, the man of all men, that he had always reckoned most his friend, valued most as a friend -- because -- oh! hang it all! because he was out and away the nicest fellow he had ever known, Forbes who was his own age or thereabouts but by dint of quicker sympathies, a more athletic frame always passed muster for quite a young man, dancing, playing tennis, racing ponies, and always everywhere a popular man with maid and matron. No one knew why he had never married, Forbes himself said he had never had a chance, never been to a place yet where some man or other had not been before him with every woman in the place. He had never posed as a lady killer, a breaker up of happy homes, had never even been reckoned a flirt, just not married, and been very much liked. And now he was walking with Winifred, beautiful, young, inexperienced, Winifred in that exquisitely romantic garden in the moonlight, quoting poetry to her and evidently charming her. Lindsay gripped hold of a railing till he almost cried out with the pain in his hands. He felt dizzy all on a sudden, his brain seemed to reel. He heard the soft persuasive music, and the swing of the dancers' feet. He noticed, as he had never noticed before, the luscious, languorous scent of the flowers. Burnt in upon his brain was the picture of Winifred, with her slight, swaying figure, Forbes' arm still round her waist, his face bent towards her, his eyes looking into hers, and hers looking up at him, confidingly, lovingly, with the look "with which she'd follow him round the world," thought the husband standing by himself in the night. He had never in all his life before felt so elderly, never so fully realised that he had passed through life wilfully or foolishly missing the best things in it. Why had he not as a young man clasped the elder Winifred to his bosom and defied fate secure in her love? He recollected that little, awkward trick of hers stumbling over her dress in her haste to help anyone or do anything. It had gone against him in the old days. He had been annoyed by her awkwardness, her want of distinction. She had not ever been really pretty, as far as he remembered. Well, the wife he had married was distinguished enough -- more than pretty, lovely -- the cynosure of all eyes! And of course everyone must think so, Forbes included. Oh! for the restful domestic happiness he might have had with a wife who loved him, who would have grown old together with him! Yes! and prevented him from growing old so quickly too! Oh, that he could give up Winifred to Forbes, and let them both be happy together. Why could it not be? God knew he did not want her, not that child, who had not even yet realised that he had a responsible business, and cares upon his shoulders, who wanted to be kissed and have poetry quoted to her, and to be loved as Forbes would love her! He knew it all now with a sudden intuition. But how far had it gone? Was everyone talking about it already? Were they saying why this ball was given? It was for Winifred of course. Mrs. Lindsay's ball. In honour of Mrs. Lindsay, everyone had said. But did they know -- did he know -- how far in Heaven's name had the thing gone?

"He is so very kind," in Winifred's soft voice from the pathway beneath.

"My dearest child, do you think of yourself as a dog, whom people pat -- or kick? Kind to you indeed! I should think -- " and Forbes' further words were lost among the trees.

So they had been walking in the garden all this time! Good God! how people must be commenting upon their absence! My dearest child! It had gone pretty far indeed, and yet -- and yet he knew he had heard Forbes call her so before without thinking anything of it, and justice bade him remember the tone was jesting. Anyhow he would not be laughed at. Her good name must be saved if possible. The three must re-enter the ball-room together. He advanced to meet them.

"Winifred, will you not be taking cold?" he said. "Why, how chilled your arm is!" and he drew it through his and looked at her.

There was no expression of guilt upon her face. "I said it was time to go in. Only I am so dreadfully afraid of my partners; I am sure I have missed more than one dance. Will they be very angry?"

"Very angry indeed," said Lindsay. It was a relief to him to say the words.

Then he re-entered the ball-room with his wife upon his arm, and the young men of the dance before, and of the last dance and of this dance were all round her at once. And there was Winifred frightened and casting appealing glances to him to help her out of her difficulty just as she had always been used to appeal to her sisters; then, when he did not respond, looking round for Forbes.

"Come Mace, don't be so obstreperous. Fight me if you must fight somebody, but not the young lady. Now don't bother, Smith. Here's your partner for this dance, Mrs. Lindsay! Off you go with her," said Forbes, then himself hurried away to make his peace with goodnatured Mrs. Annesley, who he knew always counted the dances till the squares came round in which alone she could join. "Do come down to supper with me instead now," he said. "I'll ask them to make the extra a quadrille," whilst the kindly lady smiled acquiescence.

"How pretty she is!" she murmured, as they were leaving the ballroom, looking back at Winifred and her partner, again the brainless but good looking Jones. "Are not Mrs. Lindsay and a ball just made for one another?"

"They are indeed," cried Forbes enthusiastically.

"And yet do you know I am a little sorry for Mr. Lindsay," said the stout but discreet matron. "I don't think such a fascinating young creature can be quite a comfortable wife for a man of his age and standing. Not quite a comfortable wife, you know," she repeated. "He looks very grave to-night, don't you think?"

"I had not noticed," said Forbes quickly -- "Here Lindsay come along with us and have some supper. You don't dance, you must sup. Oh, nonsense, man! three is company sometimes, capital company, is it not, Mrs. Annesley?"

At two o'clock they all went home, and Forbes put out the lights by himself. Or rather his servants did whilst he walked in the garden and unconsciously found himself on the very spot where he had stood with Winifred during those missing dances, watching the waves tumbling against the rocks.

No one had pitied him, and yet the man who had given the most brilliant ball that ever had been given on the island, a ball to be long talked of, was in reality very much to be pitied. What was he to do as a man of honour? a friend? And that poor girl!

CHAPTER VII

HOW THEY TALKED IN ENGLAND

"Winnie is disappointed in her husband," said Agatha the Post Office girl.

"Let us hope not! Let us hope not! There is no word of disappointment in her letters."

"Now Auntie! You know Winnie. She says 'the sunsets would have enchanted Turner, and the boats are all that is picturesque. The house is only too large, each room as big as our poor old house, but they are all so comfortable, and the veranda the most comfortable of all.' Oh! then there are some pages about the verandas and the long chairs -- and short chairs, I suppose, only she doesn't mention them. They seem all made of cane anyhow, and to come from Hong Kong, just as we say from Paris. But there's no 'he is so noble -- my ideal -- so far above me,' and she rolled her eyes up to heaven and clasped her hands, mimicking her sister's manner when in earnest. "There's no 'he is just the very clearest fellow in the world' as I say a hundred times a day of George." For pretty Agatha was engaged now.

"Oh, but you are not Winnie."

"Just 'Mr. Lindsay met me on the steamer. We were married next morning!' We were married next morning. Oh, auntie, that from Winnie, who thinks marriage the most awful, most momentous event in life, far more fatal and solemn than dying, which we all must face sooner or later, whereas marriage we need not, it is voluntary. Auntie, Winnie is broken hearted."

The elder Miss Ellerslie covered her face with her handkerchief, while her shoulders shook with sobs.

In a moment Agatha's arms were round her. "Oh, you dear auntie, how could I be so cruel? Only your 'let us hope' provoked me. But what are we to do now? What can we do?"

"Nothing," moaned Miss Ellerslie, "there is nothing to be done. I am sure Mr. Lindsay will be very kind to Winifred. But she should not have gone out to China to marry him. It was a wild enterprise. I always was against it."

"I know you were," said Agatha.

"How did you know? I never said anything."

"That was just it," said the girl. "When I told you of George you did say something. Come now, didn't you? And yet Winnie always was your own particular pet. She always was the pet of us all. We all spoiled her," said the Post office girl."

"I have the very highest opinion of Hugh Lindsay," murmured the elderly lady, speaking very slowly, and as if with an effort. There was a curve in her eyebrows like that in her niece's, and she also was very slight, but shorter, rosier, more of a woman and less like a spirit, than the girl who had gone to China.

"I know! you always said that," interrupted Agatha.

"But Winnie is not the kind of girl to go out to marry a man she has not seen for years, really knows only by correspondence. Nor should I have thought Hugh Lindsay was the man to do so either. Both of them are people to find marriage difficult. Perhaps it would have been the same whoever it had been. And gradually they will settle down into each other's ways. If she is not happy Hugh will feel it dreadfully," she added as an afterthought.

"Dear auntie, I think it would have been so much better if you had married Mr. Lindsay yourself. You knew him so well long ago, and I am sure you are much better suited to making a man happy -- that kind of man  than Winnie. It is not that she thinks of herself so much. But other people must think of her. Now you always think of everyone except yourself, and no one ever thinks of you."

"I am older," said Miss Ellerslie calmly after a short pause. "Youth is notoriously the selfish age. Everything is of so much importance to young people, their whole future seems depending on every little trifle. Anyway Mr. Lindsay never asked me."

Agatha opened her lips in a great hurry as if to speak. Then suddenly a very wise expression came over the childish, rosy face, and she held her lips tight pressed together, as if afraid lest any sound might possibly escape them. And by a sudden transition they turned and talked of the everyday, pressing, little details of their own life, as those who love us at home have a knack of doing, quite forgetting us and our calamities, by which we fancy them completely absorbed, as they would have been, were we still beside them, and all happening there those thousands and thousands of miles away. Out in China! it has a sort of dulling sound, taking the edge off heroism, off martyrdom, off grief or joy. They discussed the buying of Agatha's trousseau, and what was the nearest date at which it was possible the marriage might take place, for Agatha's fiance after all had prospects, if not a very assured competence so far. "And George is just delightful," said the rosy cheeked damsel. "Do you know-auntie, what he says? He says he wouldn't marry me at all, if it were not an understood thing that as long as there is a roof over our heads it is to cover you first before it covers us. You are not to be left to a lonely old age. See what it is for me to be engaged to such a very young man as George. He thinks of you as actually threatening to grow old, and he won't hear of it that you were only Papa's cousin, not his sister, though you were brought up like one. He says you are one, auntie, and always will be. And so of course you will be. But I do think it is nice of George to think of it all for himself. You see now Millicent has got that situation, and Winifred is so far away he thinks you have only me, and that he is taking away from you your most precious possession. Yes, auntie, George really talks of me like that, me just a Post office girl! Oh, auntie, do see that I make it up to him for being so sweet and dear as to choose me out of all the girls in the world. I don't want it to turn my head and make me a little stupid, as I have seen some brides thinking themselves so important and making their husbands just fetch and carry. I don't want George just to fetch and carry for me. He is a great deal too good for that, and I want to be a good, useful helpmeet through life -- to death -- and on beyond," she added solemnly.

"I am sure you will be, my dear child. But I will do all in my power to help you."

Then there came Millicent's letter, both direct and profound. "Thank you for sending me Winifred's. What do you think we ought to do? Ought we to seem to love her awfully much -- more than ever before -- or ought we to be very calm and quiet, so as to drive her upon her husband for love and sympathy? After all he is her husband. And I always knew marriage would be difficult to Winnie. She could not realise she was not going to marry a woman and be just petted all day long. Poor -- poor -- dear little Winnie. My heart aches for her. If we could only get her back again! But she is Mrs. Hugh Lindsay now, -- Mrs. Hugh Lindsay for life. Oh! marriage is awful, I think. Now, as a teacher, I can at least change my situation. I do hope George is all right. But of course Agatha is a rough and tumble girl. She could stand it if he wasn't," etc., etc.

To which came a laconic answer from the Post Office girl: "Thank you Millicent, but George is -- A.L.L.R.I.G.H.T., your rough and tumble but in the seventh heaven sister," also a rather longer letter from Miss Ellerslie. But they none of them knew what to do.

CHAPTER VIII

WHAT THEY SAID IN CHINA

And meanwhile the poor girl herself had become all unconscious that she was to be pitied. There is a certain amount of vanity lying dormant at the bottom of every human heart probably, and all the vanity in Winifred Lindsay's nature had now been brought into play. Had she loved her husband and felt that he loved her, even then probably the amount of admiration she was exciting would have had a bad effect upon her. As it was, her head was for the moment completely turned. She had never been to a ball before, never been to a picnic, never -- if the truth be owned -- taken part in a dinner party to the extent of dining through it, though she had often come in to dessert in her papa's days before the pretty mama she was so like died like a faded flower. She had had so few new frocks in the course of her school life that they could be counted on the fingers of one hand, and those chosen with a view to durability rather than becomingness. She had been petted and loved all her life but never admired. Now picture her precipitated with her trousseau into a luxurious and small Chinese Port, the wife of the richest and most respected man in it. To be Lady Mayoress or reigning beauty in London turns many women's heads, but then after all they have as a rule grown up to the position somewhat gradually. Not so a bride, who takes a leading position in the Far East. As often as not she was by no means a leading young lady in the place from which she came. And, as Mme. de Stael so wisely teaches, our own environment, however small and petty, always blots out the rest of the world for us to a certain extent. To the young and generally untravelled bride it does so completely, and she thinks herself the centre and cynosure of the whole world, because she is of all the world she sees. Winifred's thoughts all of a sudden were centered upon what dress she should wear, how she should do her hair, what flower she should pin on and where, and knew that her decision would be regarded as a matter of moment by every one she met that day, and that she was pretty sure to meet everyone there was -- therefore for her all the world. It is astonishing how beauty burgeons forth in such a forcing house atmosphere, and by the end of the first month there was no doubt that had she gone back to Shanghai for the Spring races, as one or two of her admirers urged upon her, she would have been reigning beauty there as well as upon the Island. She had been photographed already in a dozen different groups, in a large picture hat and evening dress of course, also without a hat and in Mr. Takimoff's furs. The Island community was fond of being photographed, generally, collectively, and the place being a merry one, as a rule all smiling at one another. But now the important matter in each group was Mrs. Lindsay's position and pose. She was getting -- and by everyone known to be getting -- the most exquisite blouses made of drawn linen from Swatow; the local lace guild was all working for her. Canton crape and finest glass cloth were being requisitioned in spite of the trousseau, for was not the summer coming on, and no clothes made in England, her lady friends assured her, were ever cool enough.

Winifred was popular among the ladies as well as the men. She danced beautifully, but then so they were convinced they all did, and there were far more than enough partners to go round twice told. She neither played nor sang, and so the ladies who did still shone undimmed, nor had the champion tennis player any need to fear for her laurels. Winifred soon tired with tennis, and though graceful she did not play hard, but indeed would often by preference sit and gaze at the extraordinarily fantastic roof of the Temple beside the recreation ground with its crowd of stone animals and trees all carved along its roof.

It became noticeable that she was beginning to flirt. Forbes noticed it first and was sorry to observe it. She treated him generally as an old friend, yet once or twice now she glanced at him in that way women know so well. "Don't do it, my dear child," he exclaimed involuntarily. Then seeing her look of astonishment, "You are desecrating my ideal."

For a moment Winifred looked at him steadily, straight in the eyes. "And you! what have you been doing all this time?" Then swiftly and stilly she moved away before he could reply.

Had she realised it then? Had she been understanding it all the time? Did she know that he, her husband's friend, was head over ears in love with her, had been making love to her ever since he knew her? She had appeared so absolutely unconscious. All on a sudden Forbes grew white and sick at heart, any man observing him would at once have seen his full age. He looked indeed more elderly than Lindsay, standing moodily looking on at the other side of the tennis ground before starting out on his accustomed walk.

Winifred had paused beside the handsome but brainless Jones. "Won't wash, Mrs, Lindsay, I assure you. No can," the good-looking fellow was saying in that mixture of slang and pidgin English, that passes muster for wit now and again. A slight shudder passed over Winifred's expressive shoulders, and she looked up for once for sympathy at her husband not at Forbes. She was struck at once then by Lindsay's attitude -- surely he had not stood bowed like that, when he first met her on the steamer -- his pallor, the manner in which he was standing staring at the ground. In a moment she was by his side, her light hand passed through his arm, "I must go for a walk with you to-day," she said. "I am sure it is not good for you to walk always alone."

"I am used to it. And I believe I prefer it now," he replied quietly but firmly disengaging his arm.

She stood motionless, as if rooted to the spot, her hand still extended. Her eyes met Forbes looking at her very kindly.

"We will go after him and rouse him out of his moroseness," said the latter playfully, adding in a still more considerate undertone: "You had better sit down now and rest if you are going to walk. You said just now that you were tired."

"Yes, I am tired," said Winifred in a tone of supreme conviction.

"Poor little girl!" said he, as he hung a jacket over her shoulders, half crossing the sleeves over her chest.

She looked up at him like a tired but grateful child.

"I think I will walk with you to-day to meet your husband as he comes in," said good-hearted Mrs. Annesley, "It will do me good. I am getting so much too fat. It hardly looks well for so young a married woman to be walking always with some man not her husband," she panted out in good-natured gasps between taking breath, as they started somewhat briskly up the hill.

"Mr. Forbes is my husband's oldest friend," said Winifred, holding herself unusually erect.

"That would be a reason for his walking with Mr. Lindsay every day but hardly for walking with his wife without him, would it?" persisted the good-natured dame, who, having made up her mind to give a warning was not to be deterred from it, yet at the same time looking round into her companion's face in the friendliest, kindest fashion possible.

Winifred said nothing, but quickening her pace somewhat, walked forward looking at the ground.

"My dear, do you wish to kill me?" cried the elder lady, laying a detaining hand upon her arm. "I am not nineteen -- nor -- nor slender now."

"Oh, I beg your pardon. I am so sorry. It was most thoughtless of me. Only I was thinking. Did Mr. Forbes never talk more with Mr. Lindsay than he does now? I understood they had always been such friends."

"Mr. Forbes is everyone's friend. We all like him," said the elder lady. "Everyone must. Yes! I believe he and Mr. Lindsay have always had the greatest regard and esteem for one another."

"But did they never talk more together," persisted Winifred, "Mr. Forbes talks to me, but -- "

"Yes, that's just it," interrupted the elder lady in her most good-humoured tone. "He talks to you perhaps just a little too much. It is quite natural, my dear. I don't at all wonder at it. I like to talk to you, too. But a husband might -- perhaps might not quite like it. Men are curious creatures, my dear, and I think, you know, you'll have to make the experience we all make sooner or later. You can't please every other man, and your husband as well. Of course you may think it is easy enough for me to talk now when I am stout and elderly. Tom knows of course I could not be fascinating now if I tried. So he is just pleased when he sees men talking to me, because he knows it is all good-nature and kindly feeling. But you can't help being fascinating even without trying."

"Oh, Mrs. Annesley, how can you talk of yourself like that? I am sure you are the best liked person in the whole place, everyone says so."

"Then be sure it is not true, my dear," interrupted Mrs. Annesley with a little smile. "Everyone never says so when it is."

"And I am sure you are not too fat," continued Winifred; then with a far away look across the arid foreground, and the blue sea, searching amongst the wild looking mountains of the great mainland of China. "But do you think I am fascinating? Do you know I don't think -- I don't think Mr. Lindsay finds me so?" And she looked round anxiously at the elder woman, her gleaming, grey eyes fixed upon her face.

"It is as I told you, my dear," said Mrs. Annesley, gazing steadily on the ground, as if she found her footing very difficult. "Every wife has to make up her mind whether she will be fascinating to her husband or to all the others. It is like being converted," she added, blushing a little and smiling, as she looked up. "You have to make up your mind once for all. I was rather pretty when I was a young girl, and I was as slight as you are, though you mayn't believe it now. Tom was always of a heavy build. He did not care for dances, or nonsense or hanging about admiring me! I am sure I love my husband as much as any woman could, but if I must own up to a little defect of his -- he dearly loves to play first fiddle. Most men do, really, though some hide it better than others. I made up my mind about it once for all. I'd chosen him for my husband, and I decided for him. After all, when you think of it, it is a poor role for a man of parts standing about with a wrap waiting his wife's good pleasure, while one man carries her bouquet, and another her fan, and a third is dancing with her, and she has smiles and sweet glances for everyone but the man in the corner -- who just happens to be her husband, that is all. I never would have married the man who could have accommodated himself to it. My dear, you are not offended with me, are you?" she added quickly, laying hold of the other's arm, as Winifred continued to walk beside her saying nothing.

"I was just thinking -- thinking. That is all," said Winifred. "No, I am not at all offended. Who could be offended with you, dear Mrs. Annesley? I know you mean nothing but kindness to me, and I love you for it," and there on the principal road of the Island without a thought of who might see her, the impulsive young bride threw her arms round the elder woman and hugged her.

But after that she walked on looking at the ground again, and Mrs. Annesley was troubled by her expression, in was so sad, she did not dare to break it upon her thoughts or beg her to walk more slowly. At last Winifred said very low almost as if speaking to herself, "I was only thinking -- thinking -- Tom -- Mr. Annesley loved you very much, did he not?" Then as the elder lady between her gasps sighed a Yes, Winifred looked round in her face, saying very distinctly, "And I was thinking what would you have done if he had not? How would you have tried to make him?"

At that critical moment -- and at the time Mrs. Annesley felt truly thankful it was so -- -Lindsay himself came into sight over the brow of the hill, walking very fast in their direction, and the two ladies turned, and walked back down the hill with him.

"And, my dear, I have had palpitations ever since. What could I have said if her husband had not come into sight just then?" said Mrs. Annesley to her husband that evening.

"You'd said a great deal too much already," replied Mr. Annesley. "Women always do. You've made her know her husband does not care for her, because she has told you so in so many words. Women have that way. They always learn things by telling other people. Depend upon it she was not sure of it before. And you've made her realize that Forbes is her lover -- "

"Oh Tom! Tom! how can you be so shocking? I never heard anybody suggest -- "

"Oh, didn't you? They say it openly enough at the Club!"

"Oh, that Club! you men are perfectly dreadful when you get together."

"Nothing to what you women would be if you could get together. Only you never dare to. Well now that you've convinced Mrs. Lindsay -- you've done it remember -- that her husband doesn't care for her and Forbes does, what do you propose to do next?"

"I think you are very unkind, Tom. And when I told you I had got palpitations, and you are the only person, who can arrange my cushions for me then. Your hand on my forehead always seems to do me so much good," his wife added, as Mr. Annesley having arranged the cushions, proceeded to lay it there according to the usage of many years.

"You're a good soul, Maria," he said. "But I don't like to hear any talk about it, for my heart aches for the whole lot of them, the poor girl and Forbes, and Lindsay. As for Lindsay he looks fit to cut his throat, and for the life of me I can't see any better way out of it."

CHAPTER IX

WHO CARES ABOUT CHINA

Thus the light-hearted time of unconsciousness and idle vanity was gone and for ever. Now Winifred walked up and down the verandah, wondering in her turn if she ever had been unconscious, looking out over the tree tops at the Consulate trees, and chimneys, and thinking, "Will he come in this morning? He might -- to bring me that newspaper we spoke of, or -- of course there is that plant. No! here comes a note instead. How disappointing!" Then before she had quite finished reading it, there at the top of the long, straight flight of steps would appear Forbes himself, who after having made up his mind he would not, yet somehow felt impelled to go over and wait -- wait till just about when Lindsay might be expected, and then -- clear out first!

But what happy, what deliriously happy mornings those were in the comfortable basket chairs among the flowers in the verandah, looking over some poem which he accused her of never having read, or she told him he had misquoted, or sometimes commenting upon some newspaper paragraphs. For the newspapers were a little alarming sometimes, but Forbes said it was nothing, there was always trouble of some kind in China, and the newspapers always made the most of it. How long ago those old miserable mornings of self searching and longing seemed now! Now Winifred had learnt to love each great uncouth rock mass, whose outline had been studied and laughingly commented upon together with Forbes, never with her husband -- and was now inextricably knit for her with some phrase of his, or some change of expression, as he glanced round into her face. Did Mr. Lindsay ever look at her face? If so, she did not know it. And how she had sought to win his glance, how pleadingly she had looked at him. But that was long ago, long ago, when she was, as it were, a different person.

She was not in the verandah now, when her husband returned for tiffin, oftener in her own room, brushing away not the traces of tears now but the traces of a too great happiness -- happiness that notwithstanding shewed in her every movement, in the very set of her hair, not to speak of the tones in her voice and the shining of her eyes.

Sometimes Lindsay now would not come home to tiffin at all, but would send a hasty note, very apologetic. And to her surprise, Winifred found she did not mind at all, did not feel at all disappointed, only as she sat before the bowl of roses or oleander, and the dishes of till now unknown fruits, wished that she had gone home with Forbes, or he stayed with her, felt it a little absurd to think of them each having a lonely luncheon, luxuriously served, so near and yet apart. Curiously enough she never thought at all of the third one lunching alone -- not luxuriously -- but off anything he could get hugger-mugger in his office, nor what business anxieties his detention signified. She had wished at one time to arrange his tiffin equipage for him with a view to these detentions, but though thanking her he had said evasively, "the Boy has always seen to that," and she had felt put on one side by their servant, and not for the first time. It is in this way some brides learn to hate the head servants of their husbands' bachelor days, till not uncommonly the latter give notice. And then in the after years those husbands may not uncommonly be heard to lament that they have never been so comfortable again. The wives boast the bills are smaller, but what of that in comparison with comfort in China! And no one realises that it was jealousy not economy that was the moving cause.

But this day Lindsay came home to tiffin. "Has Forbes gone?" he asked almost before greeting her.

"Ye-e-yes," she stammered. He came to bring that book -- "

"He has gone?" repeated Lindsay quickly, "I wanted to see him. That is all. I must go round directly after tiffin. Tell the chair coolies to be quick, I shall want them in half an hour," he said to the Boy.

"Would it not be better for Mr. Forbes to come here?" asked Winifred, "you look so tired, and the sun is hot."

"No, I had better see him in his office. It is a grave matter," and without washing his hands he sat down and ate his luncheon fast, with barely a word, evidently full of thought.

Winifred, pale and trembling in her shoes, sat sick at heart, wondering if anyone had been speaking to him, what he had heard.

Not till he had got into his chair, and gone off to the Consulate, did she throw back her head. "What am I frightened of?" she said to herself. "What have I done that is wrong? Only talked to Mr. Forbes, when I had no one else to talk to -- when my own husband -- " then the burning blushes over neck and face convicted her.

Not till she was just starting for the Recreation ground, in despair of seeing him in any other way, did Forbes appear. She rushed to greet him. "What is it? What is it?" she asked.

Forbes too looked grave. "You poor little woman, you must not be frightened. This place is quite safe. When you came to such a dreadful big country you ought to have been prepared for there being always trouble somewhere or other. One comfort is, it is a long way off."

As he spoke Winifred's brow was clearing, the pucker in her eyebrows was gone, her colour was returning, her lips parted in a smile. China! Who cared about China?

"Why, what did you think it was?" asked Forbes, patting her hair. "Lindsay is anxious about his business, that is all."

"Not his wife," whispered Winifred's guilty conscience. And at once she took up her most attactive pose, one little foot peeping out from under her skirt. And Forbes admired her. After all the role is dull for the man whose wife is admired by another man with, in any case, an agreeable freshness in his admiration that is not to be found in a husband's.

CHAPTER X

PLANNING THE PICNIC

Winifred had set her heart upon a picnic. Before the summer heat was full upon them she wanted to visit a distant Monastery with a grove round it, and a view. The expedition had now been talked of for some time. It involved sleeping for one night at the Monastery, taking bedding, and cooking utensils and food, and altogether required a good deal of preparation. It had been the subject of conversation for weeks past, and the Commissioner's governess was simply frantic to be allowed to go, while Mrs. Kitley's sister, the only other unmarried young lady of the place was only more quietly bent upon it, and there were at least three young men whose minds were set the same way. "I don't think it is safe, Winifred," said Lindsay on the recreation ground.

"Mr. Forbes says it is," she replied.

"He would not say so to-day," said Lindsay.

"Yes, he does," she exclaimed hurriedly.

"When did you see him?"

"Oh, this morning," evasively.

Her husband looked at her. "Do you see him every morning?" his gaze seemed to say.

"He came over just on purpose to settle about the picnic," said Winifred quickly. "There is so much to be arranged beforehand. I had no idea what a trouble it would be." She would not own to her husband that Mr. Forbes had really come over to tell her the whole scheme must be abandoned in the present unsettled state of the country, and that it was she who had persuaded him into going through with it. "Well then, let us go through with it or die," he had said laughing, as he went away.

"There is no more trouble required than just to say to the Boy, 'Boy, my go Shin Wen Tsu.' He has arranged for parties there often enough before. And you can tell him what clothes you require. But I do not consider it is safe."

"Oh, Mr. Lindsay, if the Consul considers it safe, the Consul who is charged with all our lives and liberties," began the governess, clasping her hands. "Don't you put a spoke in the wheel. Oh, my dear Mrs. Lindsay, don't listen to your husband. Men are always so cautious. I must -- I really must see Shin Wen Tsu."

"So must I," exclaimed the other girl. "It is is too bad to live all this time in the place, and not see all there is to be seen. And that's the only thing."

"Wait a little," urged Lindsay. "This disturbance may blow over or -- "

"Oh, there you are Mr. Forbes, do tell Mr. Lindsay there's no danger at all. We are only going for one night. And my sister says she has ridden all over those hills over and over again."

"Oh -- what do you think, Lindsay?" and the two men exchanged quick, grave glances.

"Hang it all," said Jones, who was one of the three young men. "I don't know what we are coming to, if Englishmen are to be afraid of a lot of pig-tailed Chinese."

"Run away if you look at them," said another. "I know the Johnnies. Here I'll take a pop gun, Lindsay, if it will make your mind easy."

"Shall we ask the Taotai for a guard of soldiers. He'll give us one directly if we do," said Forbes appealing to Lindsay.

"Safer without Chinese soldiers I should say," said Mr. Annesley.

"Well, Forbes, of course I defer to you as Consul. But I have not liked the look of things at all for a month past, and my Comprador -- "

"Oh, Lindsay, your Comprador. The most timid man that ever ran away from a mouse."

"He may be timid, but I'll back his information for being more correct than your Schroffs," replied Lindsay with a short laugh.

"We'll just go this once and never again, Mr. Lindsay," pleaded the governess with again clasped hands. "Oh do let Mrs. Lindsay go. I can't go without my chaperone." The governess being close on thirty, and a very experienced young woman, this was a stock joke, which never failed to raise a laugh. In the East especially in the hot season you often require to have heard a joke two or three times to be quite sure it is one.

Every one laughed now -- Jones going off in a perfect burst of hoarse laughter -- and in the general merriment Lindsay gave way. "I should really prefer it, if you'd ask the Taotai for a guard," he said in an undertone to Forbes.

"Very well, I will," nodded the other. "You'll come too, of course."

"I can't possibly. Business is difficult enough already. I am at my wit's end as it is."

"I am very sorry to hear that. Can I help you at all?" and the two men walked away arm in arm in close converse for a few minutes. They were both glad to think of that afterwards. Then as they finished "You are sure you can trust Mrs. Lindsay to me. I can promise to take the greatest care of her."

"I am sure you will. But if you are going the sooner the better."

In the end they settled to start next day, and from that moment all was confusion and excitement in the various households. And next day Lindsay saw them off before he even glanced at the last paper. Then the news was so strange, he half thought of sending a messenger after them to recall them. But at that moment there came a Chinaman to see him without even waiting for his arrival at his office. And after that he had to confront a long and troublesome business day. No one quite knew what was at the bottom of it all, but there seemed already to be marauding bands about, and up country produce could not get down, so that it was impossible to carry out existing contracts, while no Chinese would buy anything. People indeed were said to be busy burying their money. Meanwhile go-downs were already full up with undelivered goods, and no receipts were coming in, whilst things all had to be paid for in England.

Lindsay did not fear failure, but he was already in an awkward fix in more directions than one, and was beginning to wonder how he should wear through. His mind was already full of business cares when a man said laughingly: "The Big Knives are on the war path in earnest, I hear. We shall have to get our Volunteer corps into a state of efficiency, or we shall be having our throats cut in good earnest. What a fool Forbes is to have gone out to Shin Wen Tsu to-day of all days in the year."

"Think so? He is the Consul and should know."

"Never have been able to see what charm there is about being a Consul that people should always think they are so devilish well informed above every one else. A set of crazy cranks for the most part. Not Forbes, of course. But I suppose he wanted an outing. He always was, and always will be a boy."

"Do you think there's any danger?" asked Lindsay. "They have got a guard."

"Oh, danger! I don't know. Got a guard, have they? No! there's been some trouble with the soldiers. And in the end none started. Better without them I should say," the other called back over his shoulder, leaving Lindsay standing in the roadway like a statue.

CHAPTER XI

GAILY! GAILY!

The little party had started early enough from the Island, hoping to get some way into the hills before the heat of the day came on. But there was first one hindrance and then another. When all the sedan chairs, and chair coolies, and carrying coolies were ready, and all the provisions and bedding etcetera put up, and the various Boys had gone back for the last things "My forget," they found the boats of course waiting, and got quickly over to the mainland. But there they waited and waited for the Guard, which was not ready. Then somebody said the Guard had gone another way and would meet them at a point a mile or two on, and no sooner had one person said this, than another repeated it, and another and another, till it seemed authoritative, and they all believed it, and moved off. The long legged handsome Jones was in a mountain chair alongside of the governess. Little Greig of the Customs, her other admirer, was mounted on a huge, ill broken horse, that alarmed everyone but the governess by its ways of curvetting round and showing its heels. She, who knew it had been brought out to win her admiration, admired and was not alarmed. Although she was a governess now she had ridden from a child, and could ride as well bare-backed as on a saddle. Indeed there were few things about horses this plucky daughter of a broken-down Irish landlord did not know, and she would have been more in her element in a livery stable than in a schoolroom. This the Commissioner's wife had already perceived, and being very willing to see her happily settled in life had at once consented to stay at home, and take care of the children, giving their governess a day off. The only other mounted member of the cortege was Mr. Annesley on his old stout Tientsin pony, that had once won a cup some twenty years before. Mr. and Mrs. Kitley and her sister Ellie, with the two brothers Brown, and Mr. Murray, Miss Ellie's favoured swain made up the. party, together with a Lieutenant and a Doctor from the one gun-boat in port -- American, as it happened -- and, of course, Mrs. Lindsay and Mr. Forbes.

"Is it not glorious? Is it not quite too delightful?" cried the governess. "How I love to feel the warm, soft air just caressing my cheek. Isn't life beautiful, Mrs. Lindsay?"

"I don't know. I think I'm tired," replied Winifred to whom this little rhapsody was addressed.

"Tired! Tired of living! My dear Mrs. Lindsay!"

"Oh no! not tired of living. I don't want to die -- not just yet," said Winifred with a plaintive little smile. I meant I am tired. It all seems too much. The sunshine too bright -- the flowers too many -- everyone too kind -- as if life had given me everything it had to give. 'Beyond the mountains! Beyond the mountains!' I have said to myself so often as I walked up and down the veranda. And now we are actually going beyond the mountains -- to see if Heaven really lies beyond them, I suppose. That is what one always feels in life, I think, as if Heaven lay beyond."

Forbes looked at her gravely -- wistfully -- impressed, and not for the first time, by the deeper meaning that seemed to lie within her lightly uttered words.

Even Miss Murphy grew grave too for a moment, then exclaimed gaily: "Yes, we are going behind those mountains to find Paradise there. Ah, and I'm sure we shall," in her rich Irish brogue.

"No! Paradise is here. I am in Paradise already," cried Forbes. "Free from all office cares -- a beautiful day -- lovely ladies!" and he took off his hat to the governess. "What can a man want more?" Then suddenly breaking off, and with a very different expression, he began, "I say Ting-chai," then continuing in Chinese asked vehemently which of the men had got his gun, where it was, who was carrying it, interspersed with many, "You know I told you to be sure to bring it. What! no birds! What in Heavens name do you know about birds? How do you dare to pretend to talk to me? Go back and fetch that gun yourself. And if you don't get back to us before nightfall recollect I'll cut you a month's wages. Now go! be off with you."

The man looked at his master for a moment, looked him full in the face, as a Chinaman rarely does, then turned and went.

"I say Forbes. Hie there! Stop that fellow! He is a member of the Big Knife Society if ever I saw one," cried little Greig, who was wild about secret Societies, had had his brain full of them ever since he arrived in China. "Don't let him get away."

"Well, if he is, what good shall we do by keeping him with us?" asked Forbes.

"He will go and get your gun and -- "

"True! Stop there, Ting chai. This day you go with me. Here! I'll write a chit. Do you know I really think we had better turn back."

"What! because you have got no gun," cried Jones. "Here's mine and welcome. There's not a bit of game to be had anywhere. Yet I brought it. These Consuls all lose their nerve," he added in an aside to the governess.

Forbes, however heard it, and curiously enough without showing a spark of indignation, although, unlike himself, he had seemed full of irritation the moment before. "What do you say, Annesley? We could have our picnic here."

"You're alarmed by the last paper," said Annesley?" Those newspaper people are always trying to throw people into a panic in order to sell their papers. My object is to tranquillise people's minds. The only way to set business going again is to restore confidence. I have come out for the day with the deliberate object of showing the Chinese that everything is just as usual, and I don't care that for their Big Knives."

Everyone looked round, and Winifred could not help recalling Mrs. Annesley's words that Tom dearly loved to play first fiddle. He certainly was first fiddle at that moment.

But Forbes seemed only half convinced. "Well, perhaps you are right. Shall you and I go on to tranquillise people's minds? But these poor ladies, what have they done that they should be used as a means for restoring business confidence?"

"But that's just it," cried Annesley. "Without the ladies we should not have the very slightest effect. Now I am relying on Mrs. Kitley's carnations, and Miss Ellie's pink bows, not to speak of Mrs. Lindsay, who is a host in herself in that chair with its rose tendre cushions. Isn't that it, Mrs. Lindsay? Mrs. Annesley has been coaching me, you see. No! I made no bones of Maria's wishing to stay at home. She has grown stouter than she was, and a day in the sun is no pleasure to her at the best of times. Let alone being nervous! But the ladies must go on!"

"To the distant hills! To the distant hills!" cried Winifred gaily. "If everyone else turns back, I go on," and she signed to her chair coolies, who however yet lingered waiting to see if the cavalcade would still proceed, and what was going to happen.

"Just look at everyone! How confused and strange all the men look," cried the Irish governess.

"Do they? And what do the ladies look like? What do I?" asked Winifred.

"Oh you!" Miss Murphy looked round and remained staring. Winifred had never looked lovelier, nor curiously enough, less real, less like a creature of flesh and blood. "You look -- predestined -- predestined -- "

"To something hot and lingering? To an awful and terrible death?"

"Oh no! My dear Mrs. Lindsay, how can you suggest anything so dreadful? I should think you'd live long enough, not so very long perhaps, but -- "

"I don't wish to live long," cried Winifred. "To grow old and horrid!" and she shuddered. "No! Only happily! Happily!"

"Are you happy?" asked Forbes almost jealously.

"Yes! quite happy now we are going on again. As for you, you came out of your Paradise very quickly, and all for the sake of a gun, that you cannot possibly use."

"How do you know?" he was walking by her side, plodding along somewhat heavily and gazing on the ground. "You don't really read the papers, and you know nothing about it all. I believe this is the break up of China come at last!"

"I can't care about China yet," pouted Winifred.

"My dear child, you are in it. It can't break without your husband losing his fortune, or "

"Is that why he always looks so sad and grave now?" asked Winifred quickly -- eagerly, as if -- is that all?

"Does he look grave? I am afraid I had not noticed. Oh yes, of course Lindsay is troubled. He was consulting me very seriously the other day. But don't you be uneasy. Your husband's business is too firmly and too long established. He will pull through all right."

"I am not in the least uneasy," replied the incomprehensible creature at his side. "Oh, I could sing and shout for joy! I am so happy! And I have been thinking such dreadful things. And now I know it is all nothing -- nothing -- nothing -- only money!"

They turned a sharp corner and there to their great amazement came upon two Europeans. Nothing seems half so surprising as out in the country in China to meet Europeans. They look so thoroughly incongruous with their alertness, and their purposeful expression, altogether inharmonious with the landscape. Even these, though dressed as Chinese, had an out of place air about them. Forbes stopped at once and greeted the man of the party, saying "We are going out to Shin Wen Tsu. Do you think it is quite safe?"

"You are referring to these reports," said the other very slowly. "My wife and children are still out there."

"Oh, well! then you give no credence to them," laughed Forbes. "And I don't know who should know, if you don't. You are in such close intercourse with the people, have lived so many years among them, are almost a Chinaman."

"All but the heart," said the other still more slowly. He was evidently a slow speaker, and like most slow speakers a still slower thinker. Long living amongst Chinese had not tended to quicken him.

"We mean to sleep at the Temple. It is all right, is it not? I have not been out for a year or more. But the roof seemed quite solid last time, and we've sent a man ahead to sweep and dust."

"Why not sleep in our compound! Miss Wilson and I will be away, and the Pratts are not there. There would be plenty of room I think. You could use the school rooms too," he added mournfully. "I suppose -- I suppose you have everything with you." There was a terrible air of depression about him.

"Thank you! You think that would be preferable to the Temple," said Forbes all the more cheerily because the other seemed so sad.

"Yes, very decidedly preferable to the Temple," said the other as if he had at last made up his mind, and signing to the Coolies to proceed.

"Thank you. Then we will. What do you hear?"

"Nothing definite! Nothing definite so far," the other called back. "I'm rather in a hurry -- rather -- " and the last words were lost on the hillside.

"Why are they all going into town?" asked Winifred, when Forbes eventually rejoined her, he too now established in his sedan.

"Who?"

"All the Missionaries."

"All the Missionaries," repeated Forbes astonished.

"That lady told me they were going into town to get more coolies, and hurry the others down, the coolies on the mountains were asking such absurd prices and insisting on being paid beforehand, and they hadn't quite enough money in the house, or they would all have gone together. Now they are to send coolies back, and the others are all to come in tomorrow. But what is it you are thinking?" as she noticed very various changes of expression coursing each other over Forbes' face.

"Never mind," he said at last, smiling like his natural self. She had almost lost all knowledge of him in these last curious changes. "We will have a happy day if it be our last. Only it strikes me for the moment that meek and pious one, whilst apparently conferring an obligation on us, has very cleverly secured a guard for his wife and children their last night in the country. Their last night in the country. Their last night!" he repeated musingly. "Now let us have done with wars and rumours of war, and talk poetry whilst we are yet in the sunshine." He looked round at her with what she was accustomed to think of as his good, kind smile.

But Winifred was still wearing her fey expression, as without noticing him she looked out towards the distant mountains, her face all radiant, and murmured softly:

"'Thus ever, near or far
Life seems but where we are!"

"I don't know that. What is it from?"

"'Even Death is nothing more
Than opening of a door
Through which men pass away
As stars into the day,
And we, who see not, blinded by the light.
Cry, 'They are lost in Night.'"

she went on. "Don't you know it? It is by A. St. John Adcock. I don't know anything about him. But it has been such a comfort to me in coming out to China. It is about parting, not dying, you know -- I can't say it all.

'So, with a last good-bye
In this grey hour you die
To us, as we to you;
Parting is dying too
And distance, heart to heart despairing saith,
Is but a name for Death

'To-morrow we shall say,
Our thoughts reflect to-day
His quiet room upstairs,
The lonely look it wears,
For all the house seems desolate and dim
With want of only him.'

Then again,

'You will bear with you thus
Remembrances of us;
And writing now and then
Of stranger lands and men,
Your tidings from afar shall reach us here
As from another sphere.'

I used to be so afraid of dying. Now I always think it is just like coming out to China. And beyond the mountains -- out beyond -- where one never arrives -- never can arrive, till one dies -- is Heaven -- Heaven! I wonder what Heaven will be like, don't you?"

But here Forbes could not help her, and he changed the subject by quoting in his turn somewhat gaily:

"'Green sprout the tender orchids in the spring,
In Fall the cassia blooms are fair and bright;
Each in its season finds its own delight,
Who knows the joy of birds that perch and wing
In breezy thickets?'

That's what the Chinese say, though I don't know who the translator is. The joys of Heaven are not for me to-day. But what I have I value." This with a very tender glance.

Then some one called out to them, and their tete a tete was interrupted. Is anything more delightful than a picnic in Sedan chairs? The sensation of quite stilly and without any exertion whatever being carried through the air, the feeling of grandeur it confers on those who are carried by no meaner beasts of burden than men, the soundlessness. Every other mode of transit has its jars, its little noises. Winifred's chair had gilded ends to its poles, they glittered in the sunshine, her cushions were covered with satin of a tender rose colour, that only last year she would have thought too perishable even for a dress. She had on the exquisite blouse of drawn linen from Swatow. She was wearing the petticoat on which the whole lace guild of Amoy had been labouring for weeks past. She felt as Princesses probably get tired of feeling, but it was all novel to her. Her sister was a Post Office girl going to and fro on the top of a 'bus, Winifred had not yet heard of her engagement. Millicent was a school teacher in an iron grey alpaca for best. And to think of it that they were all breaking their hearts over her! Could they but have seen her then, carried along in the sunshine by her four strong, swift bearers all in white with blue borders and blue sashes, with her lovely, large, lined parasol, her white and feathery hat, and on her feet delicate little beaded slippers, that could not walk a mile if they tried! They had none of them any intention of walking, it was too hot the ladies said. Though Winifred had brought thicker shoes with her for a possible scramble among rocks in the evening.

They paused now to look back at the view they were leaving, the Island with all their respective homes upon it, each embowered in trees and a garden full of flowers, that in each case at least some one person thought the prettiest, or best situated, or most luxuriant of any on the island. Of course they had to stop now till each could distinguish his own house, and each every one else's house. But the Island was already assuming that relative unimportance in the landscape that it might be assumed to hold in real life. There were already many other islands to be seen, with waves breaking white against their shores, a steamer passing by among fishing boats far out at sea, and, nearer at hand, sheets of white graves glistening in the sunshine upon the barren treeless hill sides.

They gazed at it, all jesting with one another, and taking no pains to imprint the view upon their minds, for they would see it all so soon again, they were but going away for one night. The handsome Jones helped Winifred into her chair, as they were coming away, and they were both laughing at the intense devotion with which young Murray was regarding Miss Ellie, as he gathered her skirts together for her. The others all turned and looked at these four with the sunshine forming a sort of glory round them, and the beautiful view beyond. "You should be painted like that, you four, and so be immortalised for ever," said Miss Murphy. Then they hurried on over the hill top, and got behind the first range of mountains. After all it was only wilder, rockier country than before, interspersed with bits of cultivation wrung from an ungenerous soil by a laborious peasantry, and there in the distance in a fold of the valley between the hills the Temple with its wide-spreading, up-turned roof edges, its dull red pillars, spacious courtyards and magnificent trees in front. They settled at once to have tea at the Temple.

"I am glad we are not going to sleep here," said Mrs. Kitley, swallowing quickly her third cup. "The priests seem very surly even about hot water."

"They look suspicious certainly," said one of the American officers, then as he spoke broke off, a messenger arriving with a letter. "Why, if this does not beat everything! Here is an order from the Captain to return at once. Mr. Greig, will you lend me that charger of yours? No! Oh thank you, Mr. Annesley, much obliged. You can keep my chair. I must start at once, for I shall be benighted as it is." And he rode away in hot haste, and amidst a shower of jokes and messages and grumblings.

"We had better get on to the Missionary compound," said Annesley. I always like to see my quarters for the night by daylight."

"Why here's another messenger," cried Forbes. "Oh, my gun, by Jove! That's the Number One Boy. Why, wherever is that Ting chai gone to! I have not seen him for a long time."

"Never mind him. Let's get on now," from Annesley. "Any news."

"No -- N-O-O!" Forbes had received a paper, and looked thoughtful. "The ladies could not go back to-night?"

"No! Oh no! quite impossible," from Annesley. "That stout Yank will be hard put to it, and he's mounted. Whatever you brought that great brute for," turning fiercely upon Greig, "I can't think. You might at least have brought an animal that was decently broken. At all events mash one of the ladies with his heels, if you must mash someone. I don't want a great brute on the top of me."

"He goes like the wind," murmured little Greig.

"I wish you'd let me ride him," cried Miss Murphy suddenly, forsaking the handsome Jones.

"Oh, I couldn't. He wouldn't bear a lady on his back. As it is it is all I can do to hop up whilst the Mafoo blinds him."

"Ye -- es, he is a kicker and no mistake. But I could hop up too, and I'd make him fly and no mistake, if once I was up where you are." And the two went on bantering one another. No one was quite sure which the governess meant to accept, but the generally received opinion was that she meant to close with one man or the other at that picnic.

"Even betting I should say," murmured Mr. Kitley.

But everyone seemed suddenly grown cross and disagreeable, and there was no attempt at conversation, as they all hurried on from the beautifully picturesque but filthy Temple, to the somewhat oppressively clean and quite unpicturesque Missionary compound.

CHAPTER XII

FACE TO FACE WITH REALITY

Next morning however there were no traces of crossness. Everyone had slept well. And people were all calling out and laughing to each other from adjacent rooms. Mr. Kitley could not find his sponge and was most comical about it. Everyone in the whole party offered to lend him a sponge, but he would not be satisfied without his own. In the end the Brown brothers had to slip out of the room one draped in a sheet, and the other in a blanket, while Mrs. Kitley in Jones' overcoat for dressing gown went in and looked for it. And then it was found just where she had always said it was. "But Mr. Kitley never can find his things," she explained.

"My dear, what would be the use of a wife, if a man could get on just as well without one?" retorted Mr. Kitley. And this hugely delighted everyone.

The two unmarried girls were superintending the breakfast table. Winifred was decorating the room. She had got great bunches of Pampas grass, and tied them to the back of the different chairs, with here and there a waving bamboo in between. The Coolies had carried in rose bushes in pots and mounted them on barrels of different heights. Two tall Daturas with their long, white, trumpet like flowers greeted people as they came in, and grouped by the window were Larkspurs and Oleander bushes with the bright morning light shining through their petals. The table was like a parterre of delicate, white and pink waxy begonias, while from the ceiling hung a great branch of large rosy Oleander flowers and ferns.

"It looks like a wedding breakfast," said Mr. Kitley. "Only who is the bride?" At which it was noticeable that two ladies blushed and looked down. Jones too looked embarrassed. "The tall one is making the running," whispered Mr. Kitley to his wife. "One comfort with our little Ellie is there's no doubt who it is, and he is a right down good fellow too. Do you think she has said yes yet?"

"Now don't you tease," said his wife. "Or who knows you may spoil everything. These sort of things are very delicate."

"I should think I knew that. Why have I not had to leave my business for two days on purpose! And I don't know how many-times we have not asked him to dinner," murmured her husband, whose one delight it always was to ask men to dinner, and who rejoiced in Ellie as an excuse.

They sat over their breakfast, and wandered away from it, and came back again. The room was so like a fairy bower they did not like to leave it, and there was no hurry about going back, for it would be better to wait till it was a little cooler everyone said, and after all there was nothing to be done in the neighbourhood, now they had seen the Temple.

Someone tried the harmonium. "But we don't want to sing hymns," cried that tall, foolish Jones. Then someone begged the governess to recite. She had always hitherto refused, though she had arrived with a great reputation for reciting. Now, however, she began at once:

"She was only a woman, famish'd for loving,
Mad for devotion and such slight things,
And he was a very great musician,
And used to finger his fiddle-strings.

Her heart's sweet gamut is cracking and breaking
For a look, for a touch, -- for such slight things;
But he's such a very great musician
Grimacing and fing'ring his fiddle strings."

She recited it with all the passion of which the words were capable. And a profound stillness fell upon the company. Forbes was astonished. He had never imagined there was so much in Miss Murphy, she must be only playing with Jones he felt sure now. The woman who could recite that poem would certainly prefer little Greig with his excitable brain and all his big ambitions. As for Winifred he did not dare look at her, as he felt rather than saw, that she was sitting with averted face, gazing out on the sunshine through the flowers.

Two of the Missionary children had been looking in from the verandah through the wide open windows, pretty, rosy-cheeked, little blue-eyed creatures, who could not, however, speak a word of English. Now they flitted away like two little blue and white butterflies in their blue frocks and white pinafores. And it became evident the Missionary flitting had begun.

"Will you lock the door and give the key to our Evangelist in that house over there?"

"Yes," said Mr. Annesley, the one applied to.

Just then the governess, who had been laughing at Jones asking, why on earth did she recite such a rotten thing?" A fellow doesn't want to hear about musicians, and what woman ever was mad with devotion?" etcetera. Just then she felt to her surprise a slight, nervous hand on the other side slide gently into hers, and holding it like steel, as it did so! And looking up she saw the face of young Greig, white and taut, and breathing rather than saying 'Come!'"

Without a word, without a look at anyone else she rose and went with him, he still holding her hand. He helped her up on to the window sill of a side window, and they passed out through it, as if it were the most natural thing in the world to do, through a little courtyard at the back, through a back door that was opened to them, when Greig tapped upon it with his riding-whip. And there outside was Greig's horse, held by two frightened Mafoos and looking taller and wickeder than ever.

"I'd better get on first," he said, still speaking quite low. "Can you jump up by my foot! Catch on round my waist. We've got to ride like grim death!"

"Let me hold the reins," pleaded Miss Murphy. "You've got to see to your revolver. And the reins are rotten I know, everything is in China. But I will take care not to snap them. Forgive me! but my hand is lighter than yours."

That was all she said in that supreme moment of their lives. The others left behind staring at each other and still mute with astonishment heard a great sound of kicking and plunging; then like a vision flew past a galloping horse, with little Greig and Miss Murphy with her arms round him holding the reins, both with their faces quite white and set, but the horse looking the most desperate of the three. There was a little murmur among the company in the prettily decorated room. But no one said anything articulate.

"What is to be done, Annesley?" asked Forbes, speaking very quietly. Every one seemed to understand everything at once. There was no need to explain or ask questions. They all knew little Greig had for a long time been excited about secret societies. He might be foolish now. But if -- The ladies straightened themselves somewhat, otherwise the only thing that was noticeable was how still they kept, and that they none of them said anything except Mrs. Kitley, who whispered to her husband :

"Are all the things put together? Perhaps I had better see."

"Oh, never mind about the things," growled Mr. Kitley under his breath, and she too remained still.

"The Boys have seen to them, I expect," said Forbes gently, and at that moment his own number two appeared: "All Leady, master. More better go."

"All right, Boy. Which way more better go?"

"More better go nother load."

"Yes, just so, Boy. By -- "

And then the men stood together and minutely discussed roads, and the various pros and cons.

"Big Knife men plenty that way," said the Boy. But he showed no fear. No more did any of the Chinese. Only they were all ready, absolutely ready, as the Europeans got into their Chairs and moved off.

"Oh, those rose bushes! I forgot to have them moved back! and I promised," exclaimed Winifred, trying to stop her Chair.

"Nevermind! The Pratts won't mind if they -- do d -- die," said Forbes, to his own surprise rather stumbling over the word. Then with a wintry sort of smile, "We can send them others too, if -- if we -- are alive," and he almost laughed.

Then Winifred let her sedan move on. Somehow his arm had gone quite round her, as he helped her in, and then his hands had held hers locked for a moment's space, whilst they looked into each other's eyes. It was the first time they had looked at each other since Miss Murphy's recitation, which now seemed years ago. And neither of them had spoken as they looked at each other. Little Ellie and her lover had done just the same.

The curious part of it was no one spoke. Only Mr. Kitley had patted Mrs. Kitley on the shoulder, and smiled at her, as he helped her in.

Jones at last broke the silence: "What way did that horse go?"

"My no savee. My think all-ee same way we come. Plenty Big Knife man that way. Plenty Big Knife man Temple inside."

"We ought not to abandon them," said Jones, examining his gun.

"They have taken the matter into their own hands. We cannot help them," said Forbes. "Now all together! Some men in front, and some behind. Ladies in the middle, and don't stray please. Annesley, though you are not mounted now, perhaps you would rather go a little in front and warn us."

"Thank you, I think I'd just as soon ride behind," said that gentleman somewhat angrily. "If I'd got my horse now it would be different," he muttered by way of explanation, whilst the brothers Brown got their Chairs carried to the front without a word.

Not one of their Chair coolies refused to carry them, though they knew what they were risking by doing so. Only the carrying coolies all hurried off by what they called a short cut. Forbes noticed it, but had not the heart to stop them. What could the poor creatures do to help anyone, without weapons and heavily laden? If they knew any way to get themselves safe through, so be it!

"It is all nonsense being afraid of the Chinese. I never show fear," said Mr. Annesley. "They are a set of cowards. Curs I call them. Couldn't fight, if they tried."

Mrs. Kitley, to whom this remark was apparently addressed, did not answer. She was quietly squeezing her husband's hand. He had held it out from his Chair to her, and she was hugging it and pressing it alternately. They did not pass for a specially loving couple, he was not demonstrative, and she generally rather snubbed him before other people. But the moment had come, and their souls leapt back to one another. She would not have cried out for the world, and it was not her fault that she was the last lady in the procession. Ellie, her sister, must of course be in front of her, where she could keep an eye upon her, and Winifred's Chair was gleaming in the van, Forbes only just ahead of it, sometimes alongside. Thus of the whole company Jones brought up the rear. But though he might be a fool he was no coward, and was only longing for an encounter with the Big Knives.

"I say what's that?" he suddenly cried out.

There was something white fluttering aimlessly and helplessly among the rocks to one side of them. The others, keeping a look out ahead had not seen it. But Jones saw it, and was out of his Chair at once, and with his long stride beside it.

"Keep back, Mrs. Lindsay," he cried, turning round with a brow like thunder. For Winifred too had sprung out of her Chair, and so swiftly that she was up with him almost at the same time with Forbes.

Young Jones was a good looking fellow, remarkable really for nothing but his height, but at that moment his brow looked so awful in his wrath, that at once Winifred stood still before him trembling and almost crying even without Forbes' arm stretched back to prevent her advance. "I thought it was one of the little Missionary children," she said half crying.

And there was Forbes murmuring: "Poor little thing! poor little thing!" and almost crying too.

He came back to her now, and held her quite tight for a moment whilst she leant her little white face against his shoulder, and her eyes asked not her voice, "What is it?"

"Only one of those poor, dear little children we were playing with just now."

"Dead!"

"Dead!"

"Are you quite sure? Can nothing be done?"

"Nothing."

"But can you tell like that in one minute?"

Forbes moved uneasily. "Poor little thing! Poor, pretty, little thing!"

"They have taken away the head," said tall Jones with his brow looking like thunder.

Then Winifred trembled all over, and Forbes led her back to her chair, the others all exclaiming and talking at once. Mr. Kitley went and looked. "They have taken away the head! They have taken away the head," repeated Jones.

"I have marked the spot," said Mr. Annesley. "We'd better leave the poor little thing lying there now, I think. We don't know yet -- "

"Here's a plaid to wrap it in. Put it in my chair," said Forbes. "Man, we must do as we'd be done by. If it were your child -- "

The Chair coolies did not seem to like it, but they had to submit, and Forbes' chair was carried at the back now, while he walked by Winifred's side.

It was then that everything seemed to have finished and the whole party to have entered upon a different life, where people showed their real selves, and showed just what they felt. Little Ellie and her lover were no longer in doubt. They had embraced for the first time in public, she sobbing in his arms, not in her sister's. No one made any comment or seemed even to notice it. Even her sister seemed to attach no importance to it, saying only, "It must have been a quick death, Ellie dear. Probably the little dear hardly suffered, there is no sign of struggle." But Ellie had shuddered into her lover's embrace and made no reply.

"Don't be frightened. Don't be afraid, ladies. We are well-armed," said Forbes. "Several of us are well-armed. They will run before guns. Probably the Missionaries had none!"

"Poor beggars!" said the elder of the Brown brothers, coming back from having lifted what was left of the little child into Forbes' chair. None of them would suffer a Chinese to touch the child now. The Coolies could not understand why. They too had been playing with the child in the morning.

Then they came to something. The ladies could not understand what it was. They only saw freshly turned earth. Jones striding on in front now was passing by this. But the careful Brown brothers in earnest consultation with their coolies called to Forbes, and all the men clustered together, and some Chinese, who had been hiding in the neighbourhood, now joined their party. And gradually ladies and all knew that earth had been turned over a company of Chinese Christians buried alive, because they would not promise to recant. Some Chinese now began trying to dig them out. "But it was yesterday, and it can be of no use," said Mr. Annesley.

"Yesterday! when we were all so happy!" cried Winifred. "Thinking of nothing!"

"Yesterday!" said Forbes, and groaned.

"Oh God! that it could come back to us! that we had turned back! that I had never agreed to start! Lindsay was quite right. Oh my God! my God!"

"Do you think He hears us?" asked Winifred. Her face had gone quite small, as she looked up at him with her eyebrows drawn quite straight now, and her eyes shining like steel underneath.

"He must, if there is a God," said Forbes.

"But whether we are to live or die -- our times are in His hand! That we know, and that is all."

"I like to feel that," said Winifred. "Here on this Chinese mountain side there is nothing between us and God. I never felt quite like that before."

On a sudden they all felt the same. For the first time in their lives to each one the people round about seemed to have become unsubstantial almost unreal, and God alone was real. The scales had fallen from their eyes.

Then suddenly the Coolies put down the sedan chairs, as with one accord, and ran -- -ran -- and in one instant had disappeared from sight, whilst the little company of Europeans left behind became aware of a cloud of dust cresting the side of the hill, along the top of which their path lay.

"Save the women if you can?" said the elder of the Brown brothers. "We will fight as long as our ammunition holds out. Here! your gun Forbes! For my brother!" Then as the other hesitated. "Mrs. Lindsay -- you must!"

In an instant Forbes had gathered her in his arms, and was flying he knew not whither. From behind they heard the report of Jones' gun, Mr. Annesley's gun, the Brown brothers. The Big Knife men had evidently no guns.

At last Forbes had to put Winifred down, panting, "Quickly -- quickly!" Quickly -- quickly, half hauled, half climbing she raised herself among one of the curious rock-masses, that are such a marked feature in that part of China. At last they found themselves in a hollow between the two crowning rocks, hidden from sight below, and yet able to command the situation for a long way round.

"Why did we not think of something of this kind sooner?" groaned Forbes.

"But do you think anyone will ever come out to get us away?" asked Winifred.

He looked hard at her thinking who could come, who could not, and what the chances were. To him who knew the situation they seemed small. He climbed outwards, where he could see more near at hand, yet still without being seen himself. They heard no more firing. What had happened? Had they run so far, or -- had the rest of the party been captured -- been -- or had they fought their way through?" I don't believe the Browns would ever give in," thought Forbes, "or Annesley, when he was put to it, though he is a nervous man beforehand. Jones -- he has such long legs he might try to run." Then he went over and over it. Ought he to have come away and left them? Of course the younger Brown was the crack shot of the community. But -- he glanced back at Winifred lying in the hollow of the rock, where he had left her. It seemed now as if it had been a sudden impulse to fly with her to the other end of the world. And here he had landed her on the top of an isolated rock mass without a notion what was to be done next. Her hat had fallen off, and with her cheek resting against the hard rock she looked such a little thing in a wisp of white lace and embroideries. How could it be possible ever to get her through the Big Knives? And who was there who could fight their way out to look for them? Was not his place too in the Consulate? Ought he not at any cost to return at once? Duty! Duty and love! And on his indecision and anxiety the sun burnt down, as also on Winifred's little head bare among the rocks. Forbes too was without a hat. But he thought now he could manage to place her head in a cranny in the shade, and he went back to her to arrange it.

CHAPTER XIII

TWO ON ONE HORSE

When Lindsay was left standing rooted in the roadway, he never knew how he got away. But he must have done so. For he next found himself in his office. He knew that, because it was there Mrs. Annesley found him, as he almost feared, with his face buried in his hands on the office desk. But if it were so, she did not show any concern, or seem to think it remarkable in any way. "What can I do for you, Mrs. Annesley?"

"I did not find you at your own house. So as you had not gone home for luncheon, I followed you here," panted the stout lady. At any other time it would not have seemed a particularly lucid explanation, for he and Mrs. Annesley were by no means in the habit of meeting every day. But now, he just said, "Quite so, quite so," as he leant back in his office chair, balancing his pen on the top of a pencil. The pen would not balance. It never would. But it was a little habit of his to try to make it.

"You have read the paper?" said Mrs. Annesley.

"Oh, yes -- yes, I have read the paper."

"My Amah -- " began Mrs. Annesley.

"Your Amah -- oh, yes, yes!" repeated Mr. Lindsay.

"I say, Lindsay," cried a man, breaking into the office as it were. "We want to call a meeting. And we think your office the most convenient place. Hullo! you here, Mrs. Annesley! Never mind! You are a woman of sense, aren't you?"

Then the office suddenly filled with men -- all the men of the place, a German clerk, a Greek merchant, two Russians, all the English community to a man, the men of the Outdoor Customs Staff, keeping carefully by the door, finally the Commissioner of Customs himself with the Indoor Staff behind him. They did not turn Mrs. Annesley out. They did not stop to sit down. At the best there were but three chairs. But someone moved that the Volunteer force be reorganised, and everyone said, "Hear! Hear! and then someone said: "And a rescue party!"

"To start at once!"

"Apply to the gunboat."

"The Captain has already recalled his two officers. Afraid of international complications."

All the men glared at each other on hearing this. An American missionary looked mortified. He had a revolver in his hand, and was the most energetic man there. Lindsay looked from one to the other. He could not have gone whiter, Mrs. Annesley thought, without fainting. He took down a gun, and said he had another at his house. Then all the talk was of cartridges, whether they fitted or did not fit. A man in the Outdoor Customs had once been apprenticed to a gunsmith. He began to talk of "oil, and not too much." A man in the Indoor Staff had served in the Militia. He was voted Captain by general acclamation. They were to start before day break. Surely the United States gunboat would render some assistance "to rescue a British Consul in imminent danger of his life," suggested someone. And they wrote a letter to that effect to the American Commander, then spoilt the effect by calling in a body before he had received it.

Mrs. Annesley went home at last. It never appeared quite evident what she had come for. Her man-servant received her with great gravity. "My thinkee master no come back," he said, and proceeded to lock and bolt every door and window in the most ostentatious style. Next day she went over to the mainland again. It seemed impossible to remain upon the Island. But this time she went to the Commissioner's office. The rescue party had started, sure enough. "I hope they may all get back safe," said the Commissioner. "We have one of our men there, young Greig, so I think the I.G. will consider the risk justified, but I begged them not to venture too much. No! I have not gone with the party. Someone must stay behind and see after the office. The harbourmaster and I are running the Customs for to-day." He himself was a man over sixty, and the harbourmaster, though not quite so advanced in years was stout and difficult to move.

Presently the Commissioner's wife came in, and proposed that they should all have tiffin in the office. "We can't go back and know nothing," she said. "I only wonder you don't make us both add up accounts for you at once."

"I have too much respect for my accounts," he said. And Mrs. Annesley felt grateful, that they both thus made little jokes as if to keep up her spirits, and yet let her alone. All the time there were alarming rumours coming in. She knew it by their faces but she did not care to hear what they were. The Commissioner was always going to the window, and walking out on to the verandah beyond, and looking out. The Harbourmaster came in once or twice, and urged the ladies to return to the Island. "The people are getting excited," he said.

"Oh let them be! Let the ladies be! Our boatmen are quite to be depended on," said the Commissioner. "And I see they are keeping the way to the boat clear. Mrs. Annesley can't go back, and eat her heart out alone," he added in an undertone. And so the day wore on.

They were already at tea, when they heard a great noise in the street outside, and the two ladies were frightened, and Mrs. Annesley began to cry at last. The Commissioner ran this time to the window and out on to the verandah. And at the same time two of the Customs boatmen actually rushed into the room, their faces crimson with excitement, announcing the return of their 'Great Man' -- Mr. Greig. "Come here, my dear," called the Commissioner from the verandah. "Come and see! Look at your governess! Come Mrs. Annesley!" And for a moment they all stood in the verandah, and simply stared at the funny figure the young woman presented. Her skirts had almost disappeared, turned and twisted round her waist, her hair had fallen down, her hat had fallen off. But never had any women even in her best clothes looked more completely untroubled about her appearance than did the generally very self conscious Miss Murphy, as Greig with some difficulty swung himself out of the saddle, and then actually lifted her down. He did an extraordinary thing too, He held her in his arms and kissed her passionately in the presence of them and all the people before he set her down. "Brave girl, you have saved both our lives," he said. "You are a brave girl indeed." His face was so white and drawn that it terrified them even to look at him, and the trio looking down grew graver at each word. Mrs. Annesley ceased crying, and the Commissioner put his arm round his wife and led her back into the room. Then the panting Harbour-master and little Greig himself appeared coming upstairs, carrying the governess now perfectly insensible between them. And as they laid her on the sofa little Greig reeled and fell on the floor. The Commissioner ran for whiskey, and the ladies for water to throw over them. And young Greig came to first, sitting on the floor quite still swallowing the whiskey, but saying nothing -- nothing.

At last he spoke. "I know nothing of the others," he said. "I had but the one horse. And I saved her, or rather she saved me," and he took her hand and laid his forehead against it, and then kissed it in the presence of them all. And none of them saw anything inappropriate in his doing so, not even the Commissioner's wife, though she naturally felt responsible for her governess. When the latter revived she spoke of course; "The horse! Has anyone seen to the horse?" was what she said.

"Yes -- yes of course," said the Commissioner, and gave orders, and went down himself to see them carried out. "You just stop here," he said to young Greig, who still pale as death, had risen at once with a "The horse -- saved both our lives."

"Yes, I know, I understand," said the Commissioner. "He shall be treated like a Prince."

"And my husband?" asked Mrs. Annesley at last.

"We left them -- all there -- all safe when we left them," said the governess. "I don't know. There were crowds of men with big knives. We galloped right through them -- right through," and only now she shewed a cut above her ancle, which set the women to crying and "my dearing," while sending for a doctor.

"He too!" gasped the governess, and only then they became aware of the condition of young Greig's left arm. "He saved mine," she whispered. "So many of them! terrible! terrible. If it hadn't been for the horse -- he kicked and plunged so -- we could never have got through. I found a way of making him kick. I -- they were frightened out of their wits. But -- but the others? Can anything be done to save them? Oh I know dear Mrs. Lindsay must die. I saw it in her face, when we started." Then she heard of the relief party, and lay back with closed eyes, but only to start up again crying out: "They were all after us in the city again -- all -- all! It is not safe here I tell you. They followed us to the very gates. Do you not hear them shrieking and yelling? Oh, I do! I do! It is not safe. Let us cross over to the island. Let us get away. Away! away!" and she sprang up from the sofa, and seized young Greig by the hand. "Do not let us die here! Not here!" she cried.

CHAPTER XIV

ALONE TOGETHER!

"My darling, try to hold out a little longer." It was Forbes' voice, but it hardly sounded like his. There was a singing in her ears, had her whole body seemed swaying backwards and forwards with the singing. They had remained on their rock perch till nightfall. Then Forbes, having taken very careful bearings of their situation by daylight, they had come down, and Winifred in the delicate little beaded shoes, and the exquisitely fine drawn linen and lace dress had tried to stumble along with the help of his hand. Her shoes were gone before she had taken many steps, and her feet bleeding before even they reached the dreadful spot, where still stood the Sedan chairs, just as they had left them, and the dead child in the last. And in the horror of seeing it all over again Forbes was tempted for a moment to insist on Winifred's returning to their hiding place, where with cushions and the rug he might make her fairly comfortable in that hollow among the rocks, and himself go on alone and seek assistance. But he knew that Winifred would sooner die than wrap herself in that rug now, and he did not know if he could even steel himself to the leaving her alone, much less if she could stand it. The company of Sedan chairs looked very ghostly standing out on the hillside alone. They lingered hand in hand and looked at them.

Suddenly Winifred gave a little cry, low but of extreme horror. "My foot is wet -- wet," she moaned.

"My dear child your whole dress is wringing wet. I did not know of this," said Forbes feeling down with great concern before arriving at her foot. The cool night air was blowing right through them on the mountain top, and he looked round anxiously, thinking what he could do to protect the slender form beside him. His own white coat would be of so little avail, but as he proceeded to take it off he saw with horror like hers and only less than Winifred's, that his hand was red with blood. What had happened along this awful mountain top? They stumbled on together, looking anxiously before they trod now, Winifred wearing his coat, and all her pretty lace draperies, in which she had felt such pride, caught up over her left arm.

Presently they saw something. "Let me go first. Let me see what it is first, Winifred."

"No! no! hand in hand," pleaded Winifred. "I dare not be left alone. Not for one minute. Not now! here!" and she clung to him.

Thus together they advanced and looked upon one of the most awful sights that man could look upon. Hanging from a tree and shimmering in the moonlight, were three lifeless bodies of women apparently stripped naked, wounded in every horrible way, and split open, as fish are split open, and hung upon a tree to dry. Before Forbes had taken in the details, Winifred had fallen as if lifeless. His first duty was to carry her away -- away -- away, as far as possible from the ghastly scene. He was as a man mad now- -- mad with horror of what had been and what might be. He stumbled and fell, vomiting fearfully. That relieved him. And he picked her up, and ran on again, carrying, or dragging Winifred, first this way and then that. Suddenly through a break in the intervening range he caught a glimpse of the sea, the large Chinese city, and -- oh! how wonderful it seemed to see them again! -- the flower-girt, familiar villas on the Island they had left but yesterday. Sobbing, sick, trembling with cold in his turn now, he yet remembered that daylight must come soon, and that the necessary thing was to hide -- to hide anywhere. He saw a miserable Chinese hut near by. Would the people have pity upon them?

But no! They would not open their door, only shouted from inside and barricaded themselves. The door of a shed near by stood half open, and into that he managed to squeeze himself and Winifred. In the shelter on the straw there she came to, but only to cry out with horror, or to sob convulsively. She had not seen as much as Forbes even, but she had seen too much to be capable of forgetting it even for a moment. "Who were they?" she asked. "Who were they?"

"Hush -- hush! We must not wake the people in the cottage. Hush, dearest! My darling, try to rest."

"But who -- who -- who?" and again a terrible burst of sobbing.

"I don't know," said Forbes humbly. "I don't see how anyone could know. It doesn't seem right even to try to think quite. Dearest Winifred, we are in a very evil case. I don't know if we can win through alive. I don't know if we even either of us wish to now. But if you could say a prayer -- if we could both pray together -- "

Then to his surprise she raised herself out of the straw at once, and keeling with bowed face and outstretched hands prayed aloud with a fervour and a passion that at first astonished him, then carried him along on the wings of her prayer. It was not for deliverance she prayed, not for life, but for comfort for all those left behind, and for forgiveness for themselves for what they had done, and not done, if she had not loved Lindsay enough, or him, Forbes too much. "For I have loved," she broke off and said. "I know it now. I did not know it before -- not quite. But it is that which has made life so beautiful, and yet perhaps it was wrong." And he said nothing then, as she prayed they both might be forgiven where they had done amiss. After that they fell asleep, worn out too utterly to be even afraid. But before the daylight Forbes roused himself and they stole away, and hid again among some Indian corn then. They could eat this, and Forbes persuaded Winifred to let him leave her at last, whilst he would return to the cottage in broad daylight, and see if by the light of day he could not obtain some help from the people. Winifred made no objection to his leaving her now, but as he pressed her hands he was horrified to find how they burnt his. Her head was burning too. The Indian corn offered but little protection from the sun, and it was evident she was already in high fever and only cared now to sleep.

CHAPTER XV

THE RESCUE PARTY

The relief party was a very international one. The Customs men, to begin with, numbered amongst them a Dane with a huge dog, a Japanese and a German, besides two Englishmen, of whom one was Irish, and this last had not made sure his cartridges fitted before he started. He said he would chance it now. From the American man-of-war only the Doctor had been allowed to come. He was supposed to be strictly non-combatant. But he, with his brother officers' connivance, was so hung round with weapons, that he might almost be supposed to count for a dozen. "I guess my Captain wouldn't mean me to get shot without a try for it," he drawled out with an attempt at cheeriness.

The other men however looked at Lindsay and did not respond. Lindsay had lived through that night of inaction somehow, thinking always how, if anything -- how he ever could tell the Winifred he -- remembered, what had become of the Winifred she had entrusted to him to be his wife. His wife! his wife! Good God! that child! and perhaps dead! dying! frightened! so frightened. Poor child! poor child! He had wept over her during the night yet always with a terrible further thought of that other Winifred, who must be told, who had such a tender heart. "She would feel it so." Lindsay had said to himself again and again during the night. Now, with a felt hat pushed well down over his forehead he walked along, his eyes on the ground, stumbling occasionally. They had all been carried out as far as they cared to ask their Coolies to take them, and when the company got out, and proceeded to march, to the surprise of everyone Lindsay's Number One Boy emerged from a closed chair, and proceeded to walk too, close by his master's side. "What! you here Boy. I never told you to come," and Lindsay held out his hand to him. The Boy hesitated, surprised for a moment, then he too held out his hand somewhat awkwardly, and the two men shook hands for the first time -- after all those years together.

"My thinkee you must wantchee my, Master," said the Boy apologetically, and held out his hand to help occasionally as his Master stumbled. He had already signed to one of the Chair coolies to walk on the other side and offer his shoulder as a support. But it was curious to see how he, a house servant who never walked, and in his ill suited Chinese shoes too, got on better over the mountains than the Europeans in their first class shooting boots. Lindsay's household it appeared had all turned out to look for their Mississy, as they called her. Chair coolies, boat coolies all were there armed with knives, and those terrible three pronged forks, with which Chinese mangle their victims so horribly before killing them. Only the Number Two Boy had been obliged to remain to look after the house. The Number One Boy carried nothing apparently but a long stick. But he was invaluable. Again and again he despatched the Lindsay coolies on ahead singly or in couples to gather information, and, when they only encountered stolidity or short answers, he with his air of authority and superior Chinese at once commanded respect, and came back with information. Without these Chinese the party would have done nothing, for the people they met were all prepared to fly at the very sight of a foreigner, afraid of being suspected of having dealings with them. And the information brought in explained this alarm. Big Knife men were burying the native Christians alive, cutting foreigners in pieces. All the Missionaries the peasants said were killed, all. All the foreigners upon the mountains the peasants said were dead, except a wonderful horse, of which they told strange tales, that it had eight legs and two riders, and would only tread upon living men, and brought death and destruction wherever it went.

"I don't believe a word of it all," growled the Consular constable. "It is all just a pack of lies. The Chinese are mostly all liars for what I can see. A set of cowards too! afraid of a horse! I daresay the Big Knives have knifed one man, and very likely he is not dead."

"No use for me then," said the Doctor again with an attempt at brightening up the party, that once more missed fire.

"The great question is about the roads," said Lindsay speaking at last. He was perfectly calm and collected, whilst they all stood and discussed the matter aided by the coolies and their information.

"We are too small a party to divide," said the late Militia officer, whom they had elected to command them. "I think they would be sure not to come back the way they seem to have gone, if only because of that long hill. But of course, if we go the way they are not coming back, we should be sure to miss them."

A boy had been picked up, and was now joined to the company. The boy in consideration of being promised a sum of money down, together with a place as gardener on the Island, where he thought he might be safe from the Big Knives, confided to them that there were still some foreigners upon the mountain, and he undertook to lead the way to them.

He bade them go to the right. To do so the shortest way was up a very steep hill. Lindsay made a bee line for the summit at once. "Provided we meet no Big Knives just now," puffed the German. "Stones alone would do for us now." The German had not wanted to come on the relief excursion. He said when he entered the Customs it was to avoid military service at home. So why should he be expected to volunteer for it in China? He was quite ready to help to defend the Customs premises, if necessary, but he did not think the Commissioner was justified in requiring him to go soldiering right across China, and treating it too, as if he were giving them a holiday and doing their work for them.

The Dane said he, for his part, was glad to give his dog a run. One or two of the younger clerks began to skylark. They did not believe, they said, there were any Big Knives anywhere.

Then suddenly they all stood still. It was remarkable what an unwillingness that company of men of mixed nationalities shewed to advance. And yet it was evidently not fear that held them spell bound, for it was easy to see there was nothing living in front of them. In the end it was all the Chinese coolies together, who walked first, the little company of foreigners following at a considerable interval with the American doctor well ahead of their group, evidently bent on examining professionally. Yet even he broke down. Whilst as to the skylarking clerks they turned their heads away, and red all over, felt that was no sight for men to see. Whilst the Dane walked quickly away with his dog, holding him by the collar very firmly.

The Number One Boy had taken hold of his Master's arm, "Better no you see, Master. No can belong Mississy."

"I must see, Boy. It is my duty," in the hollow tones of the man whom the Boy had obeyed for over twenty years, and together they went forward. The bodies were wounded in a hundred places, gashed by tridents, cut with blunt knives -- eyes pulled out -- ears cut off -- and other more dreadful mutilations, and beneath them piled up lay an arm -- a leg -- a hand -- a heart -- entrails -- and gnawed -- gnawed by human teeth as the Doctor was ascertaining.

But who could ascertain anything? The smell- -- the sight was so offensive most of the men were already vomiting, whilst from a bush a Coolie was disentangling a scrap of muslin they all remembered as a bit of Miss Ellie's dress. Two men sat down and cried. The others' faces were almost as awful to look upon as the sight they were contemplating. But most of them were averting their eyes, as knowing the poor murdered ladies would have wished it.

"We must return here later to give them burial," said the leader of the company. "Is it -- is Mrs. Lindsay -- "

"No, I am sure she is not," said the Doctor.

"I don't see how anyone can be quite sure," said Lindsay, putting a great constraint upon himself and touching the hands of the murdered women one by one. Then as he dropped them with a deep sigh, "No, it is not Winifred." But he looked hopelessly at the heap of mangled remains. "Anyway we had better go on and see -- if anyone is alive."

"Belong Missionary. My savee belong Missionary," persisted the Boy. Then the Coolie with the bit of Miss Ellie's dress shewed it rather sadly, and the Dane's dog came back with a pink bow in his mouth. And they all looked at one another.

There was no cursing -- not a swear-word. These men were in the habit of using them; they knew none adequate to the occasion now.

"Let us go on. Forward, gentlemen!" Just then there was a cry from another direction, and a coolie was seen running towards them, and beckoning to them to come on.

They went on and saw all the Sedan chairs still standing, as they had been left, Winifred's glittering poles and rose-satin cushions somewhat in front. Lindsay bent and kissed them as he passed. After that several of the others did likewise. Even the Chinese coolies bent in passing, thinking it was some ceremony to be gone through. But they did not presume to touch the cushions. Then a fresh burst of horror, as their young leader, late of the Militia, walked first and unrolled the rug, discovering the headless body of a little girl of six. It was not mutilated in any other way. There was the little blue frock, and the white pinafore, with the little feet in their neat white socks and brown shoes, and the little hands all creased as childhood's hand's are apt to be and -- only the head gone! A Chinese coolie stroked the child's hand.

"How dare you! how dare you, you Chinese devil!" cried the German, "How dare you touch the hand of an European child? Curse you! curse you! curse you!" and he himself knelt and kissed the child's hand, washing it with his tears, and drying it with his pocket handkerchief.

It was one of Lindsay's most trusty coolies, who had done the awful deed, and the Boy hastened to explain, as he said to his master: "That belong German man -- he no savee anything. Englishman can understand, he savee coolie velly solly small Mississy."

The coolie slunk abashed to the rear, but he was a father himself, and he could not refrain from another fond, lingering look at the poor child. He had known her well, nursed her as a baby and carried her on his back only the other day. One of the other men guessed, and asked, and explained it to the German who had become hysterical, and walked on now, leaning on the other's arm. "I never would be a soldier. I cannot bear the blood," said the latter, blowing his nose vigorously.

"That was Forbes' rug," said Lindsay's calm, dry tones. "He must have wrapped the dead child in it. No Chinaman would have done that. I gather they must have come up while the Big Knives were still killing, and put them to flight."

"Why leave the chairs, then?"

"Coolie all lunned away," interrupted the Boy. "My savee. My have hear talkee." It now appeared one of the coolies, who had run away, was in their party, and presently another turned up, and another. They said the party of foreigners had gone in this direction, and killed plenty of Chinese. The rescue party hastened forward, and presently the way was marked by Chinese corpses. Then after a time someone thought he heard 'Cooee.' "Mrs Kitley! That is the way she always calls." And rushing forward they presently came upon her flying down the hill to greet them, and falling into the arms of the first man she encountered, who hugged her and kissed her before he knew what he was doing. It was the silent Dane.

"Mr. Kitley and Mr. Annesley are on the other side lying watching with their guns," she said. "I saw you from the top of the hill. Have you seen Ellie?"

"No -- N-oo. And where is Mrs. Lindsay?"

"She and Mr. Forbes are somewhere together, I think -- I hope," said Mrs. Kitley. "He ran off carrying her, when -- But Ellie was with us. Mr. Kitley took my hand and we ran together, and Mr. Annesley came after us. We thought -- Mr. Murray was taking care of Ellie. And we have never seen her again. The Big Knives ran away when the Englishmen began to fire. We killed several," said Mrs. Kitley proudly. "But where are they all, the two Mr. Browns, and Mr. Jones, and Mr. Murray and Ellie? Are they all together."

"I daresay," said someone. "Don't you go now, Mrs. Kitley. Some of our party will go on and fetch your husband and Annesley."

"Aren't you very hungry?"

"Do have some whiskey."

"Here's a sandwich."

"Which way do you think Forbes and Mrs. Lindsay went? I must go on and find them."

"Yes! and Ellie," persisted Mrs. Kitley. "My sister! My sister Ellie. She must be quite near."

The men looked at one another, and the Chinese coolie, who had been carrying it ever since he found it, came up to Mrs. Kitley and shewed her the bit of her sister's dress.

"Ah, dresses so easily get torn. But where did you find it?" asked Mrs. Kitley.

The Dane now shewed the pink bow. "My dog; he find this."

"Where? where?" persisted Mrs. Kitley.

Nobody liked to tell her.

"Greig got off all right with Miss Murphy we hear. He is a plucky fellow, and she is a plucky girl. I hope they got in safe," said someone.

"Do you think Mr. Murray has got in safe with Ellie?" asked Mrs. Kitley.

"Perhaps -- perhaps. Do eat that sandwich. Do drink some whiskey. I am sure you must need it."

"I don't believe I'd better," said Mrs. Kitley, "I'm so strangely excited as it is."

Then Mr. Kitley and Mr. Annesley appeared, and drank whiskey at once, and insisted on Mrs. Kitley taking some too. "It is very good of all you fellows. We didn't think you'd come out so soon. And such a party too. Did the Commissioner give a general holiday?" asked Annesley, shaking hands all round. "What you, Boy? You here too?" and he shook hands with the Boy also. Mr. Kitley did the same, and they even nodded to the coolies more or less individually.

But they did not seem excited, only very tired, and sleepy, and glad to be relieved, wanting to rest, and supposing everyone else was all right somewhere or other.

The bit of dress was shewn and the bow. "But it isn't the least bit of use your going, Mr. Kitley, to the spot. I've examined everything I could examine," said the doctor, "and you'd better sit still and rest."

Mr. Kitley looked as if he longed to do so. Then he got up and looked all round. "Take care of my wife, will you, gentlemen. She has held up splendidly. But she is pretty well done now. Back soon, Jennie dear," and he kissed her. "I only wish I could get you out of this sun."

"Any idea where Forbes went to?" asked Lindsay, as one or two men hurried after Mr. Kitley -- to break it to him.

Mr. Annesley indicated vaguely some direction. "We have not seen him and Mrs. Lindsay since early in the day. My idea was he would take her to some hill," and he pointed to a rock mass not unlike that, where they had hidden, but alas! in quite another direction. "But if they were there now they'd have seen us long before now."

"Send the coolies to see, Boy," said Lindsay, and sat down as if exhausted. There were mountains and rock masses all round, and it might as well be one as another, and the sun was scorching.

Then Mr. Annesley gave the account of how it had all happened, and how they had driven off the immense force of Big Knives by simply firing straight and dropping some of them. "With only four guns," he said. "Forbes gave his to the younger Brown, and he ran off with Mrs. Lindsay before the firing began. It seemed the right thing to do. Kitley got off Mrs. Kitley. And after a time when I saw the whole force beginning to run I came to help them. You see it was rather stiff work, though Kitley and I dragged his wife along anyhow, and she ran and sprang like a wild cat. Country-bred you know makes all the difference. But little Miss Ellie isn't, and has shorter legs, and Murray would not dare take the same liberties with her, nor know what she could do. I was a little afraid, perhaps I ought to have stayed with them. But like a fool I thought lovers -- you know. But what can have become of them, and Jones and both the Browns? We have always been expecting to see them turn up. The firing did not seem to go on very long. Those Big Knives must be a set of arrant cowards. And we've spent the time ever since looking out -- ready to fire -- without a thing to eat or to drink. I don't think I did well to take that whiskey just now. If there were only some water. I say we must get Mrs. Kitley out of this sun, or she will go mad -- we all shall."

CHAPTER XV

WHAT! ANOTHER PICNIC!

It hardly seemed strange, it seemed indeed laughably natural, like every day life out of which they had been violently wrenched and into which they now seemed to have relapsed again, when they got hot water to wash, and soft towels on which to dry their faces, and a comfortable, cool cottage with a meal that looked like tiffin, quite a proper tiffin too, sitting on chairs round a table -- with flowers on it actually and a table cloth. All this Lindsay's Boy had achieved. And when Mr. Kitley and his party came back they could not believe it at first, passed their hands across their eyes, then began to laugh and say silly things. "Do you know I dreamed a horrid dream," said one of the men, ''that these Chinese -- -Good Lord! were attacking us, and we were running away and hiding, and some of us killed?" He pulled himself together at the word, and looked round as if frightened, lest someone should have heard, then rattled on again. "And now -- and now -- to find you all sitting at tiffin! Oh -- ho -- ho -- you know I can't get over it. And how smart you look Mrs. Kitley. Such a pretty gown! And -- "

"Hush! Hush!"

"What is the matter? What is it all?" said Mr. Kitley coming in. "What! all at tiffin! Oh! I say! Is it tiffin time only? I thought it was bed-time, or to-morrow -- or some other time. My dear, I am very sorry to be so late, and I think I should wash my hands. My head is so hot." Then as the hot water was brought in the Chinese fashion, he looked up all dripping. "And don't wait -- don't wait for Ellie anybody. She and Murray are young. Lovers, you know! Lover's privileges! We must not intrude. Oh Lord !" and he broke down and was led off to lie down on a bed in an inner room, an awful Chinese bed, which he would not have touched in ordinary times.

Meanwhile the coolies were telling their tale in Chinese, whilst Mrs. Kitley, who did not understand it, was serving all those in like case with herself, and laughing and talking without seeing after her husband, without asking any more after her sister, apologising for the tiffin not being better, and generally acting as mistress of the ceremonies. "Another picnic!" she said, "we did not expect another picnic yesterday, did we Mr. Annesley? And such a much larger one."

"Have you sent a messenger to tell my wife I am alive?" that gentleman was asking meanwhile, "Thank you, Lindsay. You always were the most thoughtful -- though I'm not much account, less than I thought I was, I feel now, yet to the wife I am just all the world you see. And, poor, dear Maria! she must have been in a dreadful stew."

"She was very brave and quiet yesterday," said Lindsay. "Oh, by the way, she sent you this box of compressed meat things just as we were starting yesterday -- this morning I mean. I don't know how I came to forget it till now."

Just then Mr. Kitley came in again, looking quite different. He took hold of his wife's hand and looked at her.

"Yes, dear," she said.

And the others all looked away though for some time it was unnecessary, for they were already blinded by their tears, but-they heard what he said. "Ellie was a very good girl -- a very good girl. And Murray -- he was a first-rate fellow you know -- first rate."

"Excuse me a moment, Mr. Kitley, "and there was the American doctor pushing in between. "Will you oblige me, Mrs. Kitley. I have only just got this fixed up for you. Drink it right down, please. Drink it right down." He had been looking after Mr. Kitley, and now he handed Mrs. Kitley a glass of something nasty and white looking.

She swallowed it down at once. "Thank you, doctor."

"Promise me, my dear," said Mr. Kitley, "promise me."

"Yes, of course," said his wife without looking at him, indeed avoiding doing so, or even asking what he wanted.

"Do not try to see -- promise not to look. And promise not to ask -- me nor anyone -- how or where -- " poor Mr. Kitley drew a long gasp, "we found her. Let us think of her -- in Heaven! In Heaven always!"

"Yes," said his wife. Then without moving, she looked up. She was hearing something before he did. And now they were bringing -- something into the cottage, something or things in a basket, alas! an empty luncheon basket. "Shall I not even move and go to her?" she asked.

"No, no!" he shrieked, rather than said, and put himself in front of her.

"No, no!" rose as in a chorus from the other men.

"Do not move," from the doctor. Mr. Kitley had fallen on his knees by his wife's side, he was sobbing like a child now. She put her arms round him. "Ellie was a very good girl," she said through her tears, "she loved God, and thought of God and Heaven more than you really knew. Do not sob, dearest. She is safe -- in the everlasting arms -- in the presence of God's holy angels," she went murmuring on.

And the others withdrew a little space.

"Are you ready now to go forward again?" asked Lindsay. "The coolies seem bringing back no news."

"No man savee anything," said the boy.

They hunted till nightfall yet found no trace of Forbes and Winifred.

"Mrs. Lindsay was not among those bodies. I assure you on my oath," the doctor said to Lindsay. "I put Miss Ellie together as well as I could, and that poor young fellow. I was not clear about him always. It might have been one of the Browns. About Jones of course there was no doubt. But there was nothing that could be Mrs. Lindsay."

"I think we ought to try to get back under cover of the night," said the late Militia officer, the Captain of the party. "I am very sorry, Lindsay, very sorry indeed. But the Commissioner only spared his staff for one day, and some of the men are beginning to grumble as it is. And anyway we ought to put Mrs. Kitley in safety."

"Oh, do not think of me," said Mrs. Kitley.

"Then there is Mrs Annesley, in great anxiety," proceeded the other, "and we shall be short of food directly. I am sure I can undertake that many of us will come back."

"I shall remain in any case," said Lindsay. Then they made a gathering of food for him. His man-servant received it gravely, but shook his head as he looked at his master. It was evident the man's courage could hardly hold out, but he could not think of forsaking his master, and he saw that it would be utterly useless to urge him to go.

Under cover of the night the little foreign party stole away. They were carrying their dead with them as far as they could, and they dared carry no lanterns even as they did so. One or two of the men were evidently badly scared already. Progress was slow. And, as it was, they all but fell into the great Big Knife encampment. Several of them had promised themselves to return at daybreak, when they started, but as they pushed slowly forward, even the staunchest began to feel doubtful about this, if, as by a miracle they could themselves win through.

"Anyway, Mrs. Lindsay must die of it, she never was strong," they began to say to one another.

"Oh, you never know what you can live through till you try," returned the American doctor.

CHAPTER XVI

THE RECOGNITION

Lindsay, the most English of Englishmen, dressed in the clothes of a Chinese coolie, stealing through the night with his servants, watching, listening, only every now and then venturing on a call in English. Was it credible? He did not know himself, could hardly believe that it was he, had indeed lost all thought of his own identity, all thought of Winifred, was pursued but by one burning desire -- the last root desire of the true Englishman -- to leave no stone unturned to do his duty! Alive or dead he must find his wife, if he could. But how it might be he dared not let himself think. Once the men thought they heard an answering call -- and called again -- again! but met with no further response. What Chinese they came across were scared out of their wits, and would have nothing to do with them. The Boy, tired out and absolutely hopeless now, had lagged behind. In the end he appeared to have learnt more than they had, as they returned wearily dragging themselves along, wet through with the heavy dew. For he hastened to warn his master that presently the Big Knives would be there in force -- the very party into whose hands the others returning so nearly fell -- and that the people of the cottage would not for any money allow them to remain there any longer, lest they themselves should be burnt to death or buried alive for having dealings with foreigners, that indeed he had begun to fear for his own life among them. And he now supplicated his master to hide among the rocks in a safe and inaccessible place that he had heard of for that day, and then next night when possibly the Big Knives might have passed on, to try to make his way back to the Island, but not going anywhere near the Chinese city, which he, the Boy, understood was now violently anti-foreign. He had heard of a lonely path in a quite opposite direction by which they could in a circuitous manner arrive at a remote headland, from which it might be possible to take boat, and so get over to the Island.

Lindsay listened to all the Boy had to say. He looked round at the frightened coolies. He realised for the first time that all these men's lives were in his hands. There would be no mercy shown them, if they were caught by the Big Knives. "Is there room enough for so large a party to hide?" he asked, "and what will happen to the others coming back to look for us?"

"Oh, master, they will not come back," cried the Boy in a tone of deep conviction.

"No, of course they will not come back," said Lindsay now, suddenly surprised that he should ever have expected it. And he now only objected when he found all the people from the cottage wanted to come and hide too, all terrified lest their neighbours should tell of them, that they had had dealings with foreigners. "I can't have women and children and such a crowd."

"Oh, master, two of the coolies will dig in the fields so fashion can look-see, and two have go away too muchee fear. And these women and small chilo they too muchee fear. All the same your own mississy, Master, these women all belong pore man's wife."

And Lindsay once again, as so often before, over-borne by the never talked about but deeply rooted democracy of Chinese customs, which really hold every man's equality, gave way at once. Only he insisted upon hurry, and as they all ran about excited, picking up first this, then that, as too precious to leave behind, a good many of the women got left, and what became of them he never knew.

Meanwhile the missing Winifred had slept and slept till Forbes finding her head always burning, and her eyes always heavy with sleep, had not known what to do. Fearing the tremendous dew amongst the Indian corn, he had once more carried her off amongst the rocks, and then utterly exhausted he had laid down beside her and slept too. And now, when he woke with a start, in one agonised moment at once realising their forlorn and terrible position, he saw that she too was at last awake and with the light of reason in her eyes, and hurried up to her rejoicing.

"Come nearer -- nearer," murmured Winifred. "Everything seems so far away."

Encouraged as it were by this, at last his reserve broke down. "My own dearest! Mine at last! Tell me you love me, Winifred!"

She shrank away, saying a little woodenly as if her tongue had difficulty in forming words: "I am Mrs. Lindsay, Mr. Lindsay's wife!"

"No -- no! that is over now," cried Forbes. "With all life's shams and bitterness. Till death -- through life. Life is over now for us -- for all! You are free. We are both free to love -- to -- "

There was a curious leaden look about her eyes, an unusual colour in her cheeks. "Are you sure?" asked Winifred doubtingly.

Then suddenly the colour flushed over her face, her eyes broke out into brilliance; and she threw her arms around him, drawing his face down to be kissed and kissed. "Oh my dearest, how I have loved you," she crooned rather than said. "Too much -- too much. But I am so glad I have not died without this. He never loved me -- not me I You did from the first. From the first! I saw it. I felt it. It has made me so happy -- so very happy. And yet I never really knew it till now, -- never knew why my life was so happy. Oh, it has been a beautiful life, has it not -- like a flower's, like a sunbeam's ; -- and it is finishing -- before the night," and she smiled a little sweet, sad smile that would have witched the heart out of any man even one who had not already loved her. Oh, my beloved, you will never know how I could have loved you, if I had grown to be a woman. We shall neither of us ever know how happy we might have been. It is all unknown -- unexpressed -- but true -- true -- " She had been playing with the hair upon his forehead, holding his head in both hands. Now suddenly she pushed it away from her. "But can it be right -- right?" The dullness seemed creeping over her eyes again, the difficulty coming back into her speech. "Millicent and Agatha would never think it right. Auntie might, perhaps. But auntie was always so indulgent, And Millicent never would. You see I am his wife -- Mr. Lindsay's wife," she added gravely. "And you cannot think Mr. Lindsay would like it. You would not in his place."

There are points beyond which human endurance cannot stand out, and Forbes had reached his limit now. He did not know what possessed him, nor what he really meant by it himself, as he stood beside her, looking down on her for a minute, then suddenly knelt and said: Goodbye then, my beloved," and a great tear fell as he spoke.

"You are not going away?" cried Winifred in sudden terror. "You would not leave me alone surely? Dying! Am I to die alone? Oh auntie -- auntie -- auntie!"

He had to hold her in his arms and caress her to soothe her back to calm. "Never, my darling, never! I will never leave you. Do not fear, Winifred. I am here beside you, my poor child."

"Thank you," she whispered, and nestled up to him, her little tear-stained face huddled into his bosom. "I could not understand it, that you should go away. It seemed so unlike you" she murmured. Then after a few moments: "Do you think that I am dying -- really dying? I feel -- like -- going away!"

"God knows," said Forbes, looking at her in her pretty, tumbled frock lying there amongst the rocks without even a pillow, without anything, nothing but his body with which to shield her from the terrible, pitiless sun, mounting higher and higher, and making even his own head swim now. "Poor child! Poor child," he repeated, stroking and pressing her hand.

She began to be delirious now. "Do you hear it, water running? Oh, take me, do Mr. Forbes. It is coming so high. Do you not see I shall be all wet through -- directly." Then suddenly she sat up and said in a rational voice: "I hear something."

"So do I," said Forbes, and for a moment his heart stood still with horror, for the voices he heard were Chinese, and he looked at Winifred, and wished to heaven he had a gun. Should he strangle her there, as she lay? His hand could so easily close round that little throat. Winifred was very near a violent death then, had she known it. "Lie quite still," whispered Forbes. "I will try to look out."

With difficulty he rolled along a huge rock fragment, creeping forward almost prone on the ground and pushing the rock inch by inch before him.

He could see now, blue cotton gowns gleaming through the rocks below, -- Chinese -- coming on. The rock trembled on the edge, he raised himself to hurl it with all his might so as not only to kill the first man who reached a certain spot, but if possible to block the way. He must defend himself and her as long as he could, sell his life as dearly as possible. Perhaps, meanwhile, Winifred might die. If only she could be dead first -- dead -- dead! Suddenly on his agonised, anxious ears fell the sound of English words: "You see, Master, plenty man can hide backside." Pidgin English! And why! Surely they were all in Chinese clothes! He stared down, dishevelled, in his shirt sleeves, his brows knotted above his eyes, the rock ready to hurl, when suddenly what seemed a Coolie looked up, and in him of all people in the world Forbes recognised Lindsay, who in his turn stood and gazed amazed at the hat-less, coatless, torn, and soiled figure before him, above all at the expression so awful in its desperate, hopeless, furious wrath.

Thus the two men recognised one another, and for a moment stood and stared, and neither spoke, Forbes almost breaking his hands in desperate efforts to restrain the rock he had been at such pains to precipitate. "Here -- hie -- Lindsay help!"

Lindsay rushed forward, and together the two men succeeded in replacing it in safety.

Then after a hesitation, which seemed like an eternity to them both, Lindsay spoke. "Is my wife here?" was all he said.

"Yes -- here!"

"Is she alive?"

"Yes! alive!" with a backward glance at her as if to make sure. "Wait one moment!"

Then he went back to her. "Winifred dearest, can you rouse yourself! It is life not death we have to face. Your husband has come to look for you."

But her eyes were glazed with fever, and she did not seem to understand even when he shook her arm. "Your husband, Winifred! Lindsay! Lindsay is coming! You are saved."

Then he beckoned and Lindsay came and stood beside her, looking down and noticing everything. If they could have known this was what he was saying in his heart, "You trusted your niece to me, and this is the pass to which I have brought her -- dying here among the rocks." And he was noting every item of desolation and discomfort, totting it all up as it were as a debit account against himself.

"She was conscious just now," said Forbes. "Have you water?"

"Boy!" called Lindsay. And the Boy came and immediately began to unpack. He it was who poured water over her, sprinkling it carefully with his hands, and not allowing the two Englishmen to touch it with one of their fingers, lest they should pour too much. While Lindsay held an umbrella over her, and took off a Coolie's hat with which to fan her.

"I don't think she knows you in those clothes," said Forbes. "Have you your others?"

"Yes," said Lindsay and there and then began to change. "Have you been here all the time?"

"No! Oh no!" cried Forbes, but could not detail the history of their Odyssey there and then.

When he was once more European in appearance Lindsay advanced, and bent over his wife. "Winifred, my dear, are you better?" he asked in his cold, clear tones.

She opened her eyes at once then, recognising him with a delighted smile. "Kind! Always so kind!" she said, and tried to hold out her hands to him.

They were the last words she spoke. And Forbes felt afterwards he was glad it was so. At the time he was human, and his heart had ached for some recognition. But none had come for him.

The two men wanted to move her, -- to do all sorts of things.

"Better no move Mississy," said the Boy, as he made cushions out of clothes and showed Lindsay how to chafe her hands, whilst he got one of the women to warm the poor chilled feet in her own bosom. But it was all of no use. The damps of death were gathering fast. And the last words she ever spoke were, "kind! so kind!" to her husband. He liked to remember that, and to remember too that last glad smile on recognising him. It seemed to blot out some of that terrible debtor account. And curiously enough Forbes too liked to think of it, as presently the two bent over what they could not but recognise was the dead body, that had been Winifred's. And the sun scorched down upon the bare rocks, and it did not seem to matter. Nothing seemed to matter now.

"At least you saved her body from desecration," said Lindsay, "and did so, I expect, at the risk of your own life!"

Forbes looked up at him. There were tears in his eyes. "At least I would have done so if necessary," he said. And the two men grasped each other's hands, recognising as so often before the qualities that had made them for so many years such friends.

After that they could talk together. "Was she very much afraid? she was such a child," asked Lindsay.

"She did not seem afraid," replied Forbes. Then he told of their finding the headless body of the little child and putting it in his chair, and then again of their coming upon all the sedan chairs in a ghostly circle. "They are there still," interposed Lindsay. "At least they were when we came by." And then Forbes told of her finding her foot wet with blood. "She was frightened or rather horrified then," he said. "But she has never seemed frightened since. She was very heavy with fever and slept. To-day I thought she was better, and she said you had always been so very kind to her -- and -- and how happy she had been in China -- that hers had been a beautiful life! Like a flower's! like a sunbeam's and finishing -- before the night!"

"Did she say all that?" asked Lindsay surprised. "It is quite true. She was like a flower. And -- and now that she is dead and in your care I feel that she is -- more yours than mine."

"She was your wife," said Forbes stoutly, even while touched beyond expression by the inexorable justice of the man, who even in death would not claim what he knew had not really belonged to him. "I am sure if Mrs. Lindsay knows what is passing here now, that is what she would wish us both to remember both now and always."

Then he even retired a little space, and left Lindsay, the husband, to make all the arrangements. That might be taken as a confession of wrong doing. Had things been different, he, Lindsay's friend, would have sought to spare him all that he could. Now he was only wishful to avoid the least appearance of interference.

Then for two days and nights the two men with their Chinese following fought and hid and hid and fought their way back to the Island carrying their dead with them. But on the third day they stood once more on the wide, shady verandah among the sweet scented flowers and the comfortable basket chairs, and gazed across the tree tops at the sea. And Winifred's coffin stood between them as they did so, pots of Freesia still in bloom beside it.

But Forbes had to hurry to his Consulate to receive anguished appeals for help, and hear accounts of further massacres, and to repeat over and over again: "Lord Salisbury will not move. The Foreign Office will not do anything. Of course I ought to have been killed -- brutally murdered. But then they would not care! Not just for a Consul. As it is, I can do nothing."

Only force can overcome force, and he had no armed force to interpose. Yet people came to him as the Consul, the representative of England's might.

And his pale face and hopeless tone, together with the black circles under his eyes, seemed only natural under the circumstances.

CHAPTER XVII

AFTERWARDS

Of course things quieted down as they always hitherto had done in China, and nothing particular came of it all, though there were some rather fierce newspaper articles written at the time, in which people sighed alternately for Lord Palmerston and Sir Harry Parkes. But the British Government was anxious about its Parliamentary majority just then, and China seemed a long way off, looking very unimportant too in the Times Atlas, with so few places marked, as also mostly wrongly as people from China said. So a high judicial tone was assumed in England as to the iniquity of looking at every thing, as if the centre of the world were in China, and England had no other interests more important. That is a very safe line to assume, whatever subject is brought up, and England's Imperial interests are so vast no one is ever in a position to prove that any particular point should be attended to, before it forces itself upon public attention, thus all alike can be neglected by Government Officials till -- it is too late for any but the Military. The people who had lost those they loved best in China had not the heart to say much, and those, who did not care much, continued not to care much. A few poor ignorant peasants, who also possibly were previously convicted criminals, were beheaded, and a certain sum of money was handed over and declined, then handed on again and after four transfers in less than a year and a half -- such is the Consular service sometimes in China -- Forbes found himself in the Consulate at Chefoo, China's great sea bath, where ladies and children enjoy themselves during the summer months until fetched away by men wearied out with business and heat borne in loneliness. The ladies were still arriving when Forbes found himself at a dinner party next to a lady, who had arrived at the Island just as he had left it. The silver shone, the punkahs waved the gas in their faces, the faint scent of dying flowers mingled with the fumes of the viands, as with a good two hours of it in prospect he opposed a somewhat pale profile to her and her chit-chat as from another world -- a world he had long thought of as dead and buried.

"Mr. Lindsay is married again, you know. Poor man! he went home, and we thought he would never come back. But he has with another wife, called Winifred too, and rather like -- like, you know -- " she dropped her voice and hesitated. "She is older of course, but such a sweet, good creature, and she seems to suit him exactly. He sits and looks at her and grows fat, yes truly he does! Though she is nothing to look at like the first one of course. Between ourselves I think it was a great mistake he did not marry her from the first. She is an old love they say, and she suits him exactly. People say no one can ever tell what might not have happened if that dreadful massacre had not occurred just then. Nothing was done, was there? No one was really punished?"

"Mrs. Lindsay was not massacred," said the Consul severely. Then, as the other paused troubled, he went on in a very cutting tone, which yet did not seem altogether meant for his dinner neighbour. "She died of fever brought on by hardship and exposure. And after all people may die of fever any year in China -- without all that."

"The others were massacred though."

"What! the Missionaries! Oh! they don't count. There is no close time for Missionaries now. Lord Salisbury has laid it down as an axiom, that they are to be always at all seasons ready for martyrdom. Then most of them were American subjects too. And the United States sets no money value on Missionaries. Besides England has always fought all her battles for her in China. She expects it now, profits by the concessions we extort and pays us -- with abuse. To the Chinese she says: "We're your friends. We never fight you, only shut you out of our country, and kill you indiscriminately if you get in." No! the United States are hardly in a position to make a fuss about a massacre. Jones of course! But he was only a clerk. There is no scarcity of clerks, I believe," and he looked round with such a queer expression that, as she said afterwards, she could not tell whether his eyes were laughing or brimming over with tears. "We all liked him of course. What a splendid looking fellow he was! And the way he died made one wish he hadn't. But Lord Salisbury, of course, could not be bothered to hear about all that. The British Government has other interests to attend to, and the trade with China is a mere drop in the bucket, you know, not equal to that with Norway and Sweden -- as it is of course," he added abruptly. "As to the Brown Brothers the firm died with them, and there was no one to make a claim even. They were the last of their Browns it seemed. About Murray, of course, the head of his firm might have said something, but they say there is a baronetcy dangling that way. And there was a certain sum of money paid. And I believe some coolies' heads were cut off. I rather think I had to see it done. I didn't know the coolies by sight of course. They might have been any body. But you see I hadn't been massacred as you call it. That was a great mistake I made of course. A full blown Consul they might have paid some attention to. But I don't know that anything would move England now. The nation seems changed."

"Do you recollect that Dane with the big dog?" asked the lady. "He went mad."

"Which? The dog or the Dane?"

"Oh, the Dane! No! I don't think drink had anything to do with it. He was a very sensitive man for all he was so silent. And he never got over the horror of it all. Nor has Mrs. Kitley. He is so tender and attentive to her. But she has all her sister's things about the drawing-room, as if she might come back at any moment. And she shews Ellie's unfinished work, and insists on everyone admiring it -- she did work very beautifully -- and talks of her always -- always, but never speaks, of her as dead, so that one has quite to caution strangers. It is very pitiful. Do you remember that American Doctor? It was very nice of him. He got a cast made of Ellie's hand, the only bit of her that was left at all whole, I believe. And Mrs. Kitley has it under a glass case!" Such a pretty hand!" she says, as she goes by. Poor Ellie's was not a very pretty hand. But of course we all have to say it was."

Forbes was no longer treating her to his profile, he was looking round at her with a wistful, pitying expression, such as very few people had ever seen on the always popular Consul's features.

Emboldened by this, his neighbour continued: "We have another Commissioner now of course, such a different man from the last! But wasn't it nice of Mrs. Greig -- Miss Murphy that was -- they were married at once. Oh! of course you married them -- but wasn't it nice of her, she went on teaching those children just the same till they went away. Only she wouldn't take any money for it. She was determined her marriage should not inconvenience anybody, and of course they could not get another governess all at once. But it was very good of her, as she always hated teaching. And now she has their beautiful piano, oh! and lots of their things. They were so generous to her, but no wonder. We have just had another ball at the Consulate by the way, but it was nothing like such a grand one as you gave. Do you remember how beautifully that poor, dear, lovely first Mrs. Lindsay arranged the decorations?"

"Ye -- es -- I think I remember."

Did she notice how steadily he was looking at his plate, as she went on all in a tangle?

"But this time an Austrian man-of-war sent its band. That was a great treat. Ah! to be sure life has its changes. One time such beautiful garlands, and next time a band! I often think if I could note down all the changes I have seen in China, even since I have been here, what an interesting book it would make!"

"I am sure it would." Even in the old days you could never quite tell when Forbes was sarcastic. Now it was yet more difficult.

"And when are you coming to visit us again?"

"Never -- I expect -- it is not likely -- Indeed I never would -- under any circumstances." He spoke low, staring at the waving mass of ferns and flowers before him.

"Ah, I forgot. Of course you went through all that dreadful massacre -- with poor Mrs. Lindsay too. I never rightly understood what did occur. Was it so very terrible?"

"Oh no! just like everything else. Nothing ever is very different. The sun always rises and sets. Only it takes longer about it sometimes," he spoke the last words very low as if to himself.

"Yes, that's so dreadful in summer. And I have heard how terribly hot it was -- the first burst of heat. We had no heat to speak of last year and my garden was lovelier than ever. By the way the new Consul has cut down all the Bougainvillia at the Consulate. Mrs. Annesley particularly asked him to do it, I can't think why. However he said the colour jarred upon his sensibilities. He is a little cracked, of course."

"I suppose so. We all are in the Consular Service -- -if we stop on long enough. It is merely a question of time -- merely a question of time," repeated Forbes.

"And the worst of it is the poor, dear man really has grown very odd and abrupt," she said to Mrs. Annesley in retailing the conversation to her on her return to the Island. "The truth is I am afraid he was very much in love with the first Mrs. Lindsay, and he has never got over it."

"A man didn't need to be in love never to get over what Mr. Forbes and all of them went through," said Mrs. Annesley.

"Why I am sure Mr. Annesley is just the same."

"Tom is tough -- tough and well seasoned," said his wife quietly. "But you'll never hear him speak of it, or even allude to it. I know he never wants to hear of it all again. And that's why I have never written to Mr. Forbes since he went away. I don't think he can want ever to hear of any of us again. You see he said he never would come back. It is a very odd thing," she went on musingly as if to herself. "Neither he nor Mr. Lindsay died. But the Boy died, whilst Mr. Lindsay was away. I think he had a very good heart that boy. But it may of course have been only that Chinese food did not agree with him after so many years of high feeding," she added. "Only he had no illness -- just died."

Thus after the fashion of Europeans in China, they talked lightly of things they had felt but too deeply. And the years went on, and the suns rose and set. And everyone liked Forbes. But he never married. And he looks upon himself as a widower now. For since Lindsay has married again he considers Winifred has become wholly his. "Dear little Winifred! My sweet child!" is however the way in which he speaks of her to himself. Is it possible that he too is forgetting her as the years go by, and that he may yet one day marry a good housekeeper, and be -- comfortable! There is often now a wistful look about Forbes, as if he were searching for something. This sets people talking, and then they tell you if you want to make the Consul angry, you have nothing to do but offer him a buttonhole, "I never wear flowers," he says. They remark also that he will never look at a Freesia, shudders even at the scent. Consuls grow so queer out in China they say.

There is a grave upon the Island, upon which Freesias often grow, but indeed, whatever the season, always the earliest flowers are to be seen there in bloom. All those who knew Winifred make their offerings and keep it like a garden, Mrs. Greig, Mrs. Kitley -- who will never visit what is called Ellie's grave, will not even look at it -- Mrs. Annesley, and above all the present Mrs. Lindsay. That grave is the loveliest spot in all the Island, and every stranger has to visit it, as one of the sights. Her Aunt's photograph is placed now in the place in the drawing-room, where Winifred wished it to be, and the whole room is now soothing and home-like as she first arranged it. The Number Two Boy and the coolie did it between them at Lindsay's request from memory. There is no picture of Winifred there. But in the second Mrs. Lindsay's little sitting-room, where her husband rarely enters, there are all the many photographs of Winifred laughing, smiling, in a group, without a group. They almost cover one wall, and seem to irradiate brilliance upon the more hum-drum pictures of Agatha and George and their babies, together with Millicent growing somewhat severe now, and always putting off her long promised visit to China. Somehow Millicent is never satisfied that Winnie, whom she used to love to scold herself when she had her with her, was not somewhat hardly and unfairly dealt with, and cannot reconcile herself to the elder Miss Ellerslie and Mr. Lindsay being quite happy together. "If she had really been our Aunt it would not have been possible of course," says Millicent. "I do not think it should have felt possible now." And she has made up her mind that the one with whom she sympathises, and who would sympathise with her is Forbes. But they have never met, and seem never likely to do so. Forbes has no photographs hanging on his walls, only in an old book a group or two of the whole Island community as he knew it, Winifred among them. Over his bedroom mantel-piece however there hangs a poem:

"Even Death is nothing more
Than opening of a door
Through which men pass away
As stars into the day,
And we, who see not, blinded by the light,
Cry, "They are lost in night!"

Thus ever, near or far,
Life seems but where we are;
Yet those we bid Good-bye
Find Death is not to die,
As you, departing from our daily strife,
Go hence from Life to Life.

Clasp hands, and now Farewell!
The word's a passing knell,
But ripening year by year
Life triumphs there as here,
Nor dark nor silent would the distance be,
Could we but hear and see."

At one time he used often to sit quite still and wonder what would have happened had they all lived on? Had he greatly sinned?

Had Winifred? Then one day across the years he suddenly heard her praying aloud with a fervour that had astonished him at the time. And it was then he looked up that poem she had quoted to him, copied it out in a firm round hand without any decorative twirls or ornamentation about it, and hung it above his mantel-piece.

Forbes is a very much respected Consul, but he is never likely to rise any higher now. He knows too much about China to run the least chance of ever being made British Representative there, though at one time men in China hoped for this. They have however long ago given up hoping for that or anything now. Since the summer of 1900 they do not even grumble, and when Englishmen have given up grumbling you may know that they are hopeless indeed.

But the people on the Island are still being photographed in groups, all smiling at one another, and all the gardens on the Island are still each one the prettiest or the most picturesque or the most full of flowers. For places have their influences, and form people's lives, however the people may come and go and think themselves free agents. And thus those who live in China all grow somewhat Chinafied, more or less, and mostly more. And meanwhile China is being Christianised and great bodies of Christians are joining "the noble army of martyrs," till sometimes one thinks the Chinese will be such Christians as the world has not seen yet, so staunch, so devoted, and so single-minded.

But Europe knows nothing of these things e pur si muove.

The End.