CHAPTER I. THE GIRL AT THE STREAM.

IT was about half-past five in the evening. The Indian sun was still shining fiercely out of a cloudless sky, though its great power was rapidly dying as it sank majestically in the direction of a group of conical hills that stood like worn-out sentinels on the far side of the valley. Percival Duncan, of the I.C.S. and Collector of the District, was riding along the forest line accompanied by a syce. It was not an easy ride -- indeed, it was very far from being so; for the track which he was following, like others which he had had occasion to try in this primeval forest, was little more than an uneven bed of broken boulders and alluvial deposits along the base of some thickly wooded hills. At the point, however, where this story begins, Duncan was about to pass through a picturesque mountain gorge where he soon found compensations for the increasing difficulties of the road, in the intense pleasure of his surroundings. Great trees bent overhead, giving a shadowy dreamland touch to the darkened ravine -- mothakapuvu, the red fleshy flower from which the people draw the red dye for their festivals, filled the nooks with an extraordinary blaze; trees, creepers and grasses combined to laden the air with a wonderful mixture of perfumes; parrots, pigeons, doves, squirrels, and moths of magnificent colours murmured of life untrammelled and free; undergrowth, thick and high, on either side, suggested exciting stalks after strange animals: in short, the whole place suggested and offered that which he sought -- freedom and pleasure.

For some months past he had been working at high pressure. Poor harvests, land disputes, increasing dissatisfaction with an imperfect system of assessment, family feuds and a general tendency to unrest had kept him incessantly at work until he had begun to feel dreadfully tired of everything in general and of routine work in particular. Thus we find him, towards the middle of February, seeking seclusion in the heart of the forest, whither he had come to indulge in a little shooting by way of a change.

It was probably the knowledge that he was within a few miles of the best shooting spot in the district, and one of the pet places of Indian shikaris, which made him think that he needed a few days' rest. Be that as it may, he had finally decided to try his luck once more in the forest, and with that object in view he had sent his tents and bullock-bandies ahead the previous day, with orders to his servants to pitch the former in a famous tope some twelve or fifteen miles from where he then was.

India, and above all the Indian jungle, is a place where one expects to see strange things and experience thrilling adventures. But "Chose accoutumée n'est pas fort prisée," applies to the jungle as to elsewhere, and new experiences being expected, though often strange and weird, they are not infrequently taken as a matter of course, and the purely phenomenal is sometimes needed to rouse excitement as well as interest.

When Duncan, however, wrote to his friend, the I.M.S. man, to come and help him to enjoy a few days' shooting, little did he suspect the nature of the game he was to stalk, or the destiny which was written for him in the annals of the Maha-Shiva's temple in the tope.

He belonged to the younger branch of a famous but impoverished family, and in coming East had been more or less guided by the example of its widely scattered members, many of whom had served in various capacities, and with no small amount of distinction, under the auspices of the East India Company. He had been resident about ten years in India, and it had been by merit, rather than by influence, that he had risen to the important post which he now held; yet, as he was by no means lacking in influence, it was generally expected by those who knew him that he would soon hold one of those exceptional positions which were beginning to offer such splendid scope to men of his abilities.

His position was not one that brought him much into contact with ladies. Circumstances, nevertheless, did occasionally conduct him to some of the brilliant assemblies of Anglo-Indian Society, and both before and since he had got his collectorate, many gracious smiles had fallen to his lot. But Percival would have none of them, or rather he refused to pay the penalty of taking advantage of the opportunities they offered. Moreover, he loved bachelorhood because he knew that it left him the freedom to go and to come whenever he liked. He was one of those, and Indian life produces many, who prefer to slip away from headquarters and return when the mood strikes them to do so -- and not a minute earlier. Moreover, he had a great love of danger for its own sake, for horses, for a rifle and for a twelve-bore, and he knew quite well that he would have to give up a little of his free-love for these if he meant to take a mistress to his heart and bungalow; so far he had intended to do neither the one nor the other.

But although Percival loved his gun and his freedom, and although he had not as yet fallen a victim to the challenge of merry blue eyes or "the sweet silent rhetoric of dark persuading eyes," he was like unto other men; and, under the stars of heaven amidst the weird loneliness of an Eastern night, or with the inexpressible chill of his empty and solitary bungalow upon him, the mysterious call of nature would sweep through him, like a plectrum passing over the vibrating cords of a zither, warning him that it was more than possible that he would some day seek for that which Providence had destined as the complement of man.

But he had been, and still remained, something of an idealist. This fact, together with the good influences of his early training, accounted largely for his apparent impregnable reserve in the presence of women who found him good to look upon -- also for his aloofness from that which sometimes ate like a canker into the lives and into the characters of his neighbours. At school he had always led: in points of moral manliness more or less a hero; in feats of strength and athletics a match for most; and it was probably largely owing to his attention to physical training while young, that he carried in after years a muscular frame befitting a height of over six feet.

Soon after passing through the deep gorge referred to, Duncan came to a place where there was a break in the hills on his left through which the forest line meandered for some distance, and then made a sharp dip down towards some low-lying forest stretching away towards the grey plains. For a moment he rested on the edge of this rocky vantage ground, gazing with a peculiar thrill of pleasure at Nature's great amphitheatre which lay below him.

The heat of the day was practically gone; the sun's fiery rays were lighting up the rugged tops of the dark, sombrous mountains; here was deep suggestive shadow, there -- where the sun's last glints fell -- brilliant green or reflected red of the forest trees; while mingling with the twittering of birds and the hum of insect life, was the dull rumble of a distant cascade. He lingered a little, allowing the potentiality of it all to stir his being; then dismounted, and, having handed over his pony to the syce to take to the camp, about a mile away, he left the divisional line and struck off into jungle.

Duncan loved the jungle -- every leaf and insect was a source of great interest and pleasure to him. Moreover, there is a freedom in the forest which can be found nowhere else. He knew it, and, whenever he found time to do so, he pursued it with the energy and vigour of a man full of strength and health.

The hoarse cry of the peacock, the passing of a deer, the traces of a panther, meant to him hours of physical exertion, mental activity and healthy excitement. And now, as he entered almost noiselessly into the thick cover, his senses were keenly alive with expectancy, and his gun lay ready at half-cock in the firm grasp of his strong, steady hand. Nor were his powers of patience and endurance put to any severe test. It was the time of day when all manner of beasts and birds of the forest begin to move about seeking their night's provender or prey, and Duncan had scarcely entered the long spear grass when an angry snort and a wild stampede warned him that he had stepped into the neighbourhood of a herd of wild boar. Before he could locate them, however, they had completely disappeared. So, with the hope of meeting them again, he began to follow up their spoor. But luck was apparently against him, and, after an hour's useless tramp, seeing that night was rapidly approaching, and feeling the effects of a keen appetite, he turned reluctantly campward.

When he arrived at the line of trees that bordered the open space in which his tents were pitched, there were still about ten minutes remaining before the deeper dusk that would make shooting impossible. As he lingered a moment, wondering what he should do during the short time left to him, he suddenly drew himself up with a jerk -- his eyes wide open with something more than surprise, and his heart quivering with something more than physical excitement.

Duncan was gazing at the most beautiful woman he had ever seen. At least, so he thought. The comparison was, perhaps, unjust, and the rapid judgment fallacious -- but so it would seem to be in the case of all spontaneous lovers. At any rate, Percival was, for the moment, well satisfied with the delusion -- if it were one. Further, his was one of those natures which are content to let themselves go once for all in such matters, and ask nothing better than to be permitted to take the risk of doing so.

Amongst Europeans both at home and abroad he had been acquainted with women who were both beautiful and lovable, and during his tours through India and other oriental countries he had seen many magnificent specimens of Eastern women; but among neither the one nor the other had he ever seen one who appealed to him in this way -- the way which he had unconsciously expected, calling out in tumultuous irruption those dangerous instincts of desire and possession which had lain dormant or suppressed at the root of his character. This enchantress gave the final touch to the deepening fascination of the forest. For the moment she seemed to him like some young goddess -- and, indeed, to his pain and horror, he was soon to learn that such was the destiny intended for her.

Even the most critical would have been compelled to admit that she was beautiful -- a glance was sufficient to draw that conclusion, and further examination but revealed the delicate finish of her physical perfection. But what was she? Who was she? Whence had she come? -- and, why was she here in this forest clearing? Had she been dark the questions would have been answered as they surged up. But what Percival could see of her was fair -- startlingly fair, almost Western in its clearness, if not quite so. Whereas the dress, the attitude, and the circumstances under which he found her, all suggested another origin -- a high-caste origin perhaps. But if so, her fairness still remained inexplicable to him, for he had never seen anything like it before among her people.

When first he saw her, she was bending over a small stream filling a brass pot with water. Before she lifted her head and saw him, he had taken an indelible mental picture of her and all connected with her. Her hair, magnificent in its abundance as it fell like a mantle nearly to her feet, had something of a dark brown tint rather than the blue-black colour of Indian hair. Worked into it was a tiara of precious stones, and (but this he only saw later) suspended from it, lying upon her forehead, was the sacred symbol of the Shivites worked with tiny diamonds and rubies, which sent forth a scintillating light whenever she moved. Her dress was altogether unique, different from anything he had ever seen before, except perhaps in old paintings and amongst the sculptured figures of ancient temple walls. The upper part of her cloth or veil had slipped to the ground, leaving her shoulders partly exposed, and thus he was able to mark the curious spiral bands of gold which encircled her neck. To these were attached a number of gold chains which crossed over the bosom and supported two strangely chased circlets over the breasts. The skirt-like under-cloth which she was wearing was evidently made of the finest silk with a wonderful sheen in it, and was covered with the figures of gods and goddesses worked with gold and silver wire.

For some little time she continued to play dreamily with the trickling water. At last she rose and saw Duncan -- who, in his eagerness to see her better, had stepped from under the covering of the trees -- gazing at her with the look of a man who is making up his mind to stake all on a single act.

Expectancy and doubt held him in suspense, because he had not yet looked upon her face. He was almost afraid lest this opening dream should suddenly disappear and leave him with what he had so often seen before -- an Eastern woman with a magnificent form, but with an impossible face. When he saw her rise tall and slender before him, his suspense deepened and he doubted the testimony of his eyes. Her features were small and delicately moulded, somewhat after the Grecian style, and the large grey eyes with which she looked at him were like -- ah, what were they like? -- indeed, it would have been impossible for him to suggest what their beauty and depth resembled. If in her he saw something, whether of East or West, that was like an unformed ideal, she, on the other hand, saw one not unworthy to be a specimen of Western power and straightforward manliness. Over six feet, an athletic build, a face bearing the visible signs of a masterful character but withal a kind, open look, were enough to make most women look at him for an appreciable space of time.

At first when she found herself under the observation of a stranger, a quick startled frown passed over her face. But this quickly gave way to a smile -- a smile that Percival would have given much to prolong. His delight, however, was of very short duration. With a quick movement she gathered up her trailing veil, and, with a low, ringing laugh, glided away towards the temple which could be seen through the trees on her side of the stream.

She was gone so quickly that the idea of following her did not occur to him until after she had quite disappeared. Had he been quick to follow in her footsteps he would probably have seen much that would have made him suspicious, and perhaps tempted him to seek an immediate solution of the dark mystery into which he had unconsciously stepped. But the glamour of her presence and personality was upon him, so he remained where she had left him -- ignorant of the fact that many eyes had noted even the smallest details of their meeting, and that dark forms were moving stealthily under the trees on both sides of the path which she had followed towards the temple.

CHAPTER II. THE TEMPLE.

DARKNESS closed in as Duncan lingered watching the place where the strange sylvan priestess had disappeared among the trees; then he walked towards his tent. This, with a large Swiss Cottage tent and a servants' pall, was pitched under a few palmyras trees growing in the middle of a large glade preserved around the temple. It was an ideal spot to have chosen for a few days' picnicking. At one end stood the mighty Hindu shrine, surrounded by large coco-nut trees and sweet-smelling date palms, while forming as it were a fixed boundary to this quadrangle where ten thousand people at least might move freely were two lines of magnificent mango trees, whose deep shade provided for all festival comers a cool refuge from the fierce glare and heat of the midday sun.

Behind all, peak above peak, solemnly rose the thickly studded hills called from their hue, and perhaps from their history, the Black Hills.

When Duncan entered his tent he was almost a different man from what he had been a few hours -- nay, a few minutes -- before. There are many cynics who do not believe in such sudden revolutions in human character, that a man's life's course -- his hopes, ideals, ambitions and passions -- can be so radically changed by the revelation of such a moment.

Such must regard Percival's psychological condition as a phenomenon, or -- if they would prefer to do so -- a delusion! Certain it is that none would have been more thoroughly, astonished than Duncan himself at the cataclysmic condition of mind and purpose of the Collector famous among his people for his intrepidity and self-possession.

It was an unconscious relief when the servants came in to give their final salaams, and the clash and clatter of the camp began to quieten down for the night.

Soon after, when the heavy, regular breathing of men and beasts told him of prevailing slumber, Duncan took his long rattan camp-chair out into the open air, and gave himself up without restraint to the tumultuous thoughts and feelings which were crying out for complete possession. He knew that he had come to the parting of the great ways, and that it behoved him to rest a moment and reason -- or, at least, try to think out more clearly the issue.

Unbridled passion had been hitherto an experience foreign to his nature, yet that was unmistakably his present danger. When, in imagination, he heard again that low, ringing, challenging laugh, and pictured to himself the lovely face with a world of mystery and sadness in it, mad impulses fought with what little reason remained.

That he would find her out and see her again -- cost what it might -- was a determination irrevocably made at the instant of parting. But why? -- and after!

Irresistibly his eyes and his thoughts were drawn towards the silent temple in the distance, and it was only the evident madness of the act which prevented him from forcibly entering it to find her then and there.

He had not played lightly with the idea of love in youth, nor had he sought it in the dawn of manhood, and the result was -- as it not infrequently is under such conditions -- the possibility of inexpressible misery or?

Duncan was free from the stains which relaxed moral codes had brought to the souls of many of his neighbours; but now that the crisis had come, conscience had all it could do to assert itself, and show how easy it would be to go with the muddied stream.

He knew that many, situated as he was under so-called extenuating patriarchal conditions, did not trouble to distinguish between meum et tuum, and thought cynically of the parable of the "one ewe lamb." They would have laughed lightly at the thought which had begun to trouble him -- was she a maid, or was she married? So far as he had been able to see, she had worn no tali or any other marriage symbol, but versed as he was in Hindu customs he knew perfectly well that no girl of her class could ever have reached such an age without marriage.

Nevertheless he tried to persuade himself that she was not a wife. Was she, then, a temple girl? The very thought made him shudder violently. Heavens, it could not be! -- the idea was too horrible. He had seen hundreds of temple girls and nautch dancers -- many of them beautiful specimens of Nature's handicraft -- but never one without that hard, cynical, sensuous look in the eyes. Moreover, the symbolism of her dress was different, and meant too much or too little to class her with them.

Besides an old priest and a number of Brahmin assistants, who came regularly to collect the tithes and offerings, to discuss religious matters, and to decide upon the ceremonial and sacrifices of the temple (their claims to the revenue and their power of legislation being more or less hereditary) there had been connected with the temple for many years a Sannyasi, or ascetic -- one who was generally regarded as a kind of guardian in the absence of the priest.

During former visits the Collector had carried on many a conversation with this man, and more than once the Sannyasi had -- on the receipt of two or three rupees -- discreetly stared at his nose, or looked the sun in the face, while Duncan was enjoying a cool and refreshing swim in the temple pool. But, some months previous to the time at which we have arrived -- for reasons which will gradually unfold themselves as we proceed -- a notice had been set up in four languages, strictly prohibiting Europeans and all others but high-caste Hindus from either bathing in the pool or entering the reserved precincts of the temple. The temple itself, the great court, the sacred Shivite symbols, the idols, the figures of the gods and goddesses, and the Maha-nandis, or gigantic bulls, which represent the vehicle through which Shiva sometimes works his miracles, had all been repaired, painted and restored -- as if some religious revival had set in.

When Duncan had refreshed himself with a bath, after a restless night, it occurred to him that the best course to pursue would be to seek out his ancient hypocritical friend the Sannyasi, and try to get some information from him about the girl and her whereabouts. With this object in view, he strolled over towards the temple just as the pinnacles of the latter began to reflect with a dazzling glare the fiery rays of the sun which was showing itself above the mountain range.

The temple, a huge pagoda or pyramidical tower, rising tier upon tier until it terminated in one of the gilded Maha-nandis referred to, stood in a large court surrounded by four high walls.

In the centre of three of these walls were built smaller pagodas, gopurams, or towers, beneath which one entered the court and approached the sacred pool -- a beautifully clear tank about fifty yards square, built of marble and cement, and fed by a perennial stream which had bubbled up unceasingly in its centre since the day that the holy Rishis built their hermitage there, and the Shivites had found it a source of miraculous events.

There was no fourth entrance. The temple itself, or main pagoda, stood before the fourth wall, and, together with its many appendages, occupied nearly the whole of the court on that side of the pool.

From three sides of the sacred pool the surplus water was allowed to escape through flood gates -- the stream where Duncan had seen the girl being supplied by one of them.

There was a legend that far back in time there had been a fourth outlet, but evil things were said about it, and its history had long been lost in myth.

Outside the court walls, and some distance away there was a treacherous-looking pool in a deep hollow. This hollow was by no means inconsiderable, but so thickly was the upper part of it surrounded by trees and undergrowth that people often passed close by it without even suspecting its existence.

It was generally considered that this was supplied by the lost stream. But the people were prevented from looking for its source by a prophecy which said that he who found it should find the way to death. And as Hindus are easily frightened by the mysterious, and as none was eager to find the way to death, the hollow was carefully avoided by those who were aware of its existence, and the pool itself remained a mystery.

There was another important feature about this evil-looking spot. Although apparently unconnected with the temple, those who were officially in touch with the latter held that it was temple property, and an oracle through which Shiva condescended at times to make known his will.

On three sides, marble steps ascended from the base of the central gopuram to a deep colonnade. To reach the entrance of the temple it was necessary to climb the steps and then pass under the colonnade. The entrance stood immediately above the flight of steps that ran down into the sacred pool, and opened into a small chamber called the Garbhaliam -- the secret residence of the god.

The only things worthy of notice inside the garb-haliam were a Buddha-like idol apparently representing the god Shiva, a female figure as Durga his wife, the favourite Lingam of the Shivites, a few immoral scenes carved upon the dirty walls, a thurible containing incense, and some mud saucers for burning-wicks. The little chamber -- regarded as the holy of holies of Shivite worshippers -- was low, dark and dingy, with no claim to art or beauty, and without any of the soul-inspiring features which one usually associates with sacred spots. The place was so small that it could not have provided sufficient shelter for more than half a dozen people at one and the same time.

There was a legend, more or less connected with this temple, which runs as follows: A girl of the hill-tribe was to be married, but as yet a suitable spouse had not been found for her. She was therefore conducted in state down to the temple, in order that she might beg Durga, the wife of Shiva, to grant her a good husband. The goddess refused to hear her; so in despair she turned to Shiva himself, and persisted so entreatingly that at last the god determined to take her to himself. He, therefore, snatched the maid up while she was performing her puja, and carried her to one of the highest points of her native hills, where he married her. Proofs of this marriage are still preserved in the smaller temple built on the spot where the marriage was consummated.

Thus the temple and its history were shrouded in myth, miracles and mysteries, and, in consequence, was the most famous of its kind in that part of the country, and seldom failed to attract large multitudes of devotees during its great festivals. As regards the priests and leading worshippers of the temple, these were all -- that is in so far as they were initiated into the rites -- Vamacharins, left-hand worshippers, followers of the goddess rather than the god, who aim at acquiring magical and mystical powers by the use of mantras and yantras, or charms and incantations, and are the adherents of the most immoral practices of Saivism.

THE fourth and last earthly state into which a perfect Brahmin should enter, according to the directions of the Hindu Sastras, is that of a Sannyasi or Ascetic. Consequently, India is more or less overrun with would-be ascetics.

Most of these pretended Sannyasis are flagrant frauds -- disguised dacoits, murderers, refugees from justice, sellers of charms, love philtres and strange medicines, or sycophants, panderers, and extortioners -- while others are little more than interesting maniacs. Nevertheless it is possible, here and there, to find individual cases of genuine Yoga, as this system of self-effacement is called.

The greater part of these Yogis or Sannyasis, belong to the Saiva sect referred to in the last chapter; but, professedly, they are not left-handed worshippers -- their worship is connected solely with the god Shiva, and not with the female element represented by Durga his wife. In fact, they are supposed to have nothing whatever to do with the sakti puja of the goddess, or the licentious ritual of Tantrism, as in doctrine they profess to believe in the opposite extreme. Their aim is, by means of every form of physical suffering and mental suppression, to attain to (in Brahminical language) the four stages of spiritual perfection -- entrance into Shiva's world, then into his near presence, then to the likeness of his form, and finally absorption into his essence.

To attain to these they are directed to practise incessantly physical restraints of all kinds -- suppression of breath, motionless postures, increasing periods of fasting, unbroken contemplation upon the similarity of mystical sounds, or the esoteric interpretations of a series of interchangeable letters.

The more fanatical, who seek to accumulate wealth and fame rather than spiritual freedom by their austerities, permit themselves to be buried alive for long periods in specially prepared graves, or have their limbs contorted and swathed in tight bands, their flesh cut with knives, or their cheeks pierced by iron rods; the result being, in most cases, not contemplation in a higher sphere, as the Indian spectator thinks, but simply physical unconsciousness, or vacuity of mind.

Very seldom, indeed, does the intellectual and philosophically advanced Indian indulge in this species of ethical training; more seldom still can those who do so be considered moral examples to their neighbours during their intervals of rest.

Thus, the moving factor behind the religious mendicant's methods is, more often than not, either unreasoning fanaticism or roguish duplicity.

As regards this old Yogi friend whom Duncan was on his way to visit, humbugging and dirt seemed to vie with each other for his predominant characteristic. Apparently he delighted in mother earth, for he permitted it to remain wherever it would stick. Having long passed the social need of clothing, his only adornment was a large number of hieroglyphic stains, the Shivite symbol on his brow, and the saffron daubs which covered his body. Upon his head -- embedded in a mass of verminous hair, which straggled whither the breeze led it -- was the red-stained half of a coconut shell, while a long patriarchal beard fell far below his breast.

During festival seasons it was his custom to entertain the gaping crowds with a number of Yogi practices; sometimes he would take up a prominent position in the temple court, and, after taking a little milk, fix his eyes upon the sun as it rose over one side of the court, and, without moving his body, follow it with his eyes until it was lost to sight on the other; sometimes he would place his forehead on the ground and remain in that position from the rising of the sun till the going down thereof; at other times, having closed his ears with his thumbs and fastened his eyelids, nostrils and lips with his ringers for a considerable time, he would begin to describe in lyrical form the battle which he had seen raging between the moon and the stars; and at times he would mystify them by the subtle sleight-of hand of the charlatan, while posing as a miracle-worker possessed by the spirit of the temple goddess.

His poverty-stricken appearance was -- as it is with most of his kind -- part of his stock-in-trade. For years he had received valuable gifts of money and ornaments from the thousands of boon-seeking pilgrims to the shrine, and, though outwardly poor and destitute, must have had a princely hoard stowed away in some secret place in the temple or its neighbourhood.

His face was not attractive; it was the face of one who had drunk deeply from the cup of lawlessness and was now entering upon the first stage of a doubtful form of idiocy.

On this particular morning he was standing near the main entrance to the temple court, and, when he saw Duncan approaching, he at once assumed a look of stolidity. The latter made him the usual salaam and uttered a few words of greeting; but the man still continued to stare into vacancy.

Percival, however, was in no mood to be trifled with; for the moment forgetting Hindu exclusiveness and the native language in which he was a fluent speaker, he touched the man with his stick and said: "See here, old man! Do you wish to earn a few rupees?"

The man could not have understood what he had said, but he had heard the word rupee, and, Sannyasi as he pretended to be, he could not suppress the little green flash that came into his eyes at the significant sound.

Repressing any feelings of anger which the pollution of an outcast's stick had roused in him, and pretending to come out with difficulty from deep meditation, he said:

"The spirit of the Sannyasi is not always in the body; but as it wanders here and there seeking Mukti, it hears the request of those in need and returns to help them. Was the white swami seeking the heaven-bound Yogi's help?"

"As in the past," answered Duncan, "so again now, the foreigner would learn wisdom from the Sannyasi and test his power over the unseen."

"The Maharajah knows whither the knowledge of the Sannyasi leads him, and he will no doubt understand why he cannot follow far in the footsteps of the twice-born. Nevertheless let him say what is in his mind," answered the man.

"The wise Yogi is too good to his disciple," replied Duncan in the figurative speech of the East. "How-beit he will be bold and tell what it is he seeks to know more fully. Whether in a dream or out of a dream, he saw last night what he would see again."

For a few seconds the ascetic remained silent, watching Duncan's face as he tried to peer into the court.

"Men sooner or later seek the same thing," he at last replied.

"And that -- ?"

"Woman!"

"The Sannyasi is wise," replied Duncan, pleased with the progress he was making. "Perhaps he can now tell me who the woman was, and whence she came?"

"All men's minds run on woman except the Yogi's. To him they are all alike -- they are Maya (illusion) and he sees them not. How then shall I tell the Rajah what he would know?"

Though his words suggested indifference, the inflection in his voice, as he ceased speaking, was evidently intended to give the impression that he could if he desired to, or if it were made worth his while to do so.

He had no doubt seen the change which had taken place in Duncan's face as he gazed towards the central pagoda, and, in spite of the sleepy look in his eyes, had probably noted the involuntary movement of the tall slim figure standing under the colonnade near the temple door as the mutual glance of recognition flashed across the temple court.

For a moment the girl hesitated above the marble steps that led from the temple door to the sparkling pool below, looking towards Duncan with an expression which he was unable to understand, but which he thought was the result of mingled doubt and fear. As she turned away from the steps which she had been on the point of descending, he turned swiftly towards the Sannyasi.

"Look, friend," he cried, pointing to the retreating figure. "See'st thou that woman entering the temple? Tell me what thou knowest of her. See!" and holding out a number of rupees, he added: "This is thine, and much more, if thou tellest me that which is true, and helpest me to understand that of which I have spoken to thee. Is she whom I saw last night in my vision -- and whom I think I see again over there -- a wife?"

A sly, crafty look passed over the usually impassive face of the Sannyasi. Intrigue was not only a source of revenue, but the very breath of this temple's life. The powers of darkness alone knew what had taken place there in the past.

"Why does the great white man wish to know? There can be nothing in common twixt him and one of our race, even though their spirits cross in vision."

"True, thou learned ascetic," answered Duncan. "But the vision sometimes weighs heavily with those unable to understand it."

"Maybe 'tis as thou sayest," replied the man. "But visions and dreams are best left in the hands of the jyothis. Yet as thou hast sought at the feet of knowledge, so hast thou thine answer -- for what it is worth: She was, she is not, and she shall be."

"Thy speech, I fear, is more of a riddle than an answer," replied Duncan.

"It may be so -- to him that listeneth."

"Perchance thy disciple is wrong in thinking so, but to him she seemeth like a Brahmin."

"Nay, thou art not wrong. The woman belongeth to a high caste even among Brahmins."

"Then if, as thou sayest, she hath been a wife, and be no longer so, her husband must be dead. How cometh it then that against the custom of Brahmin widowhood she still weareth her hair? And what meanest thou by 'shall be,' when no widow of her caste may marry again?"

"Again thou hast answered justly -- in part," replied the Sannyasi with an assumed look of wisdom. "Now, thou canst hearken how the gurus make plain that which is hidden from their pupils:

"Nearly twenty years ago a child was born to two rich, holy Brahmins, and for two reasons it received the name of Nakshatram (a brilliant star or constellation). On the night that she was born there was a strange conjunction between the moon and the brightest of the twenty-seven constellations in which the jyothi or astrologer found a wonderful destiny for the child. She would never become a widow, but, as her horoscope foretold many adverse circumstances, every precaution must be taken to preserve her from harm until a certain mysterious point in her course was reached -- after this, care would be unnecessary as her special star foretold an exalted career from this point. That was the first reason for her name. The second was on account of the brilliancy of her eyes, which shone like stars. Their colour is not known, for when one looks into them it is as though one looks into two lakes and there is no word in our language, as the Rajah knows, to express such a colour.

"For some reason the goddess of cholera slew both her parents when she was scarcely three years old, and the high priest of the temple, being a relative, took her, and when she was about seven, betrothed her to his only son.

"When his only child died during the betrothal ceremony, the heart of the high priest turned like stone against the girl; but her mother-in-law, or rather she who was to have been her mother-in-law, instead of blaming Nakshatram for her son's death, and ill-treating her according to custom, loved her for her beauty; and, being afraid of the astrologer's words, took great care of her till about her thirteenth year, when the wife of the high priest also died.

"The priest, though old in years, had taken a young wife, but having no children by her, and seeing that as his years increased, his troubles also increased, he began to inquire through all the oracles why it was so, and what the will of the god was with regard to him. For some time the temple god took no notice of his sacrifices or prayers; but at last, by his favour, an old yogi came begging at the door of the priest's house. On account of the kindness which the priest had shown him, the yogi blessed his house, and before he departed told him as follows:

"That Shiva the great god of the temple was about to take another wife and for this purpose had preserved Nakshatram even at the expense of other people's suffering. The god had watched her jealously for ages, and that was how she had such wonderful eyes and why her fairness was like unto that of the early Brahmins. If the girl were brought before she was twenty years old, and dedicated with all the grand old ritual of the ancients on some propitious occasion, then the god would come and carry her off as his bride, as he had once done with a girl of the Hills. Then after the god had taken the girl to himself all the troubles of the old priest would end and the great blessings of long life and riches which he coveted would be granted to him. 'But,' said the yogi before he departed, 'thou must do nothing until thou hast received a message from the holy city of Benares telling thee the propitious occasion on which thou art to bring the girl and the manner of her dedication. For last night, as I was making a journey to the nether world, Shiva's boon-cow appeared to me, and, when it asked me what I would have in return for all my devotion, I said youth, strength and wisdom for myself, and long life and great riches and a son for the man who is giving me hospitality. My requests were granted on condition that I performed a pilgrimage round the Ganges and returned in time to assist at the dedication of the girl Nakshatram to Shiva before the completion of her twentieth summer.'

"So the old yogi departed on his six years' weary walk round the Ganges, and the priest guarded the girl and waited for the promised message, but the twentieth year drew nearer and nearer and still the old yogi had not come. Indeed, the priest had begun to fear that he must have died on his way, when one day the message came. The old yogi, it seemed, had performed his pilgrimage, but he was now so weak that he could come no farther than Benares. Benares, as the white ruler knows, is a very holy city, and if he died there he could enter into moksha. So he was afraid to leave the city lest he should die on the way, and so lose both the bliss at hand and also the youth and strength he coveted. He had met many learned sastris on the great journey, and had consulted with all of them regarding the interpretation of the horoscope and the girl's destiny as shown by his own dream; and they had all agreed that the dedication should take place on some night between the full moon before the Shiva-ratri and the Shiva-ratri itself, when the same conjunction of the moon, constellation, and planet would occur that had taken place on the night of the girl's birth.

"They must, however, take great care in the exact observance of the details of the festival, which was to be kept in much the same way as the great sacred night of the god. That is, a strict fast must be observed all day; the great Shivite symbols must be decorated with their gold and silver ornaments; milk and ghee were to be freely used before the garlanded idols, but above all the jealousy of Durga the god's wife must be guarded against by adorning her in her most magnificent jewellery and by making her new offerings of costly ornaments and precious stones.

"They must further take care that no one, excepting the girl, such Brahmins as were priests, Sannyasis of the Tantric sect, and temple slaves, should enter the temple before the propitious moment, which would be soon after moonrise.

"If everything went well, and the god showed his favour to his new wife, the temple bells were to be clanged, the gates opened and the people allowed to observe the festival with all the freedom of their ancient nature-worship -- which had known no restrictions before the coming of the white raj."

At this point the garrulity of the Sannyasi suddenly ceased. Duncan waited a little to see if he would continue, but he seemed unwilling to do so.

"Who is that?" he asked directly, indicating a priest-like Brahmin who was coming towards them.

"Sri Ramayya, a younger brother of the priest," answered the Sannyasi.

The Brahmin glanced at Duncan with a quick, suspicious look as he passed. He was nearly as tall as Percival himself, and was the incarnation of priestly craft and malignity. His lips were very thin and tightly locked together. Every sign of hair on his head and face had been carefully removed. The cord of the twice-born hung proudly over his shoulder. Duncan's mental summary of the man in that swift interchange of glances was -- a treacherous friend and an implacable foe.

"When," asked Duncan, after the priest had passed out of hearing, "does this festival in honour of Shiva take place?"

But the Sannyasi made no answer; either the coming of the priest had frozen his fluency or he had told all that he had intended to tell.

"Do you expect many to come to this festival, seeing that it is not one of the regular ones?" he asked in a tone of indifference, but with the hope of drawing on the Sannyasi to speak again.

"Yes: it is a great event and many will come. There are many people who know about the horoscope and the Yogi's dream. Even according to our Puranas and Tantras, Shiva may appear on such occasions. If there were no foreigners in our country, and if the sacrifices were properly performed, such as the Jyothishtoma and Agnishtoma and Asvameda, he would most certainly appear more often. But why does the Dora trouble about these things, when they are nothing to him?"

Percival questioned the yogi further, but he soon realised that for the time being at least his inquiries were useless, as the man was beginning again to assume his stolid looks. After giving him a few more rupees he left him, and, filled with conflicting emotions, walked back to the tent.

The girl was not a wife after all! What then was all this story about her birth and marriage with the temple god? Was there any truth in it or was it just a string of lies? He had heard of strange things in India, yet he could think of nothing which would explain this extraordinary affair. The Sannyasi's story, to some extent, gave a plausible interpretation to the girl's peculiar dress, but what was the real intention of those priests, and especially of that evil-looking Brahmin who had just passed him? Personally he had known of more than one instance of human life being offered to Durga or Kali in the hope of the fulfilment of a required boon. Had these priests some such diabolical scheme on hand? -- or was it merely some great, clever ruse to trick the people into giving large gifts of money and jewels to the temple? And was the girl herself a willing tool in these miserable schemes by which the priests tried to drag gifts from the superstitiously inclined? Was, after all, the lovely and apparently innocent face, which had set his blood on fire, simply the mask of one versed in the by-ways of duplicity and fraud -- and perhaps in something even worse? All his feelings revolted at the bare suggestion of such a thing. The reference to the revival of the dreadful nature worship of the Sakti of the god -- in connection with which rite nothing was permitted to stand in the way of licentiousness, and which was gradually being suppressed by European influence and authority -- startled him. He had heard indirectly from his peons and officials that a festival was going to take place; but, as it was not yet time for the great festival called the Shiva-Ratri, he had not troubled himself very much about the matter. But now, what evil was on foot?

He was determined, as he walked away from the temple, by some means or other to get nearer to the truth of the mystery surrounding the girl.

CHAPTER IV. A CURIOUS EXPERIENCE.

AFTER returning from his somewhat unsatisfactory interview with the Sannyasi, Duncan had proceeded to question his people about the coming festival. His retinue of servants and coolies, however, was largely made up of Mohammedans and low-caste Hindus, who knew very little beyond the broad fact that some great religious event was shortly to take place. Having failed to elicit any information from those who might have helped him to get a truer idea of the drift of affairs he had taken his gun and set off with the apparent object of shooting game, but really with the intention of working gradually back to the nearer environs of the tope, where he hoped to find a convenient shelter for watching the temple without rousing any suspicions as to his motives.

But again, so far as his real object was concerned, his efforts had been all but useless. He had seen nothing whatever of the girl whose presence he had begun to crave for, nor had he been able to notice anything unusual going on in or about the Hindu shrine.

A priest-like person or two had crossed and re-crossed the court, the deep resonant twang of a stringed instrument accompanying the lyrical prayer o an unseen devotee had floated through the great entrance, and more than once the glitter of a woman's apparel had flashed across the sun-lit space, but otherwise a peaceful quietness -- with no suspicion of fermenting evil -- had lain over the place.

With vigilant eyes he had watched from his covert fifty yards away amongst the trees, but all to no purpose; and about noon he was just beginning to consider the advisability of leaving his post of espial, when a splendid sambur with a beautiful head stepped softly out of the undergrowth on to a small footpath that lost itself in the jungle near by. For a moment the noble brute held up its head proudly, sniffing the air with impatience, and gazing with a dull reddish light of suspicion in its large eyes; then, as it caught sight of the half-recumbent figure of Duncan at the foot of a tree, it made as if it would spring back into safe cover -- but it was too late. Duncan had seen it come out, and as his gun spat forth its death-carrier from the choke bore, with a report that rumbled away among the hills in a thousand echoes, the great sambur kicked up the earth around, and, with a gasping snort, rolled over into the long grass.

As Percival stepped over to inspect the fallen animal three or four dark bodies, armed with knives and spears, leaped up from the cover of the thick undergrowth and began to hurry away. At first he was much surprised and inclined to be angry at the thought that his movements had been under surveillance; but, recognising them as men belonging to one of the wilder tribes of the forest, and thinking that they had probably been tracking the very game he had just brought down, he persuaded them to return and carry the dead animal to his tents, and after that thought no more of the matter, beyond the fact that it might have gone badly with one of them if his shot had missed the sambur.

When the men had departed with their burden he sat down again beneath the tree where he had been resting most of the morning. He had decided to wait and watch a little longer on the chance that something might still transpire; and he had not waited long when a low sound made him look up sharply. He had been dreaming of a woman -- sad, beautiful and pure -- a woman with the soft supple outlines of a girlish figure -- a woman with eyes and lips that held the power to sweeten his life with edenic joys; and now as he looked up at the soft frou-frou of silken skirts and the low musical tinkle of bangles he beheld a woman -- tall, splendidly proportioned and magnificent in her beauty -- but only as the panther is reckoned so.

A brilliant red sari that sparkled with gold and silver spangles clothed her from head to foot; gold gleamed around her waist and arms; while two tiny diamonds in her nostrils sent out tantalizing flashes with every movement she made. Her white teeth gleamed as she smiled, while behind the two intensely black eyes there smouldered the dull glow of fierce unruly passions.

With startling suddenness she stood there before him -- bold, smiling, seductive, tempting.

It was not the first time that he had seen this woman who was the very antithesis of the dream she had broken. During his former visits to this temple tope she had more than once crossed his path and shown by her advances that he had in some way caught her fancy. But he had had nothing to do with her then, and he wanted nothing to do with her now, so, suppressing the exclamation of annoyance that rose to his lips, he got up from his recumbent position with assumed carelessness, glanced past her with marked indifference, and walked away towards his camp. In passing her, however, he had not failed to note that bitter look of disappointment on her face and the angry gleam in her eyes which warned him of possible trouble ahead.

All this had taken place before noon, and now, towards three o'clock in the afternoon, he was resting on the cool side of his tent, and dreamily looking out over the great quadrangular clearing towards the partly screened temple at the other end.

In the centre of this open space stood an idol on a raised mound of earth and stones. It was not a beautiful object, nor in any way an attractive one -- simply a coarse, roughly-hewn piece of granite without form or beauty, but probably with a reason both dark and sinister. Duncan had wondered, as he passed by it in the morning, what significance it possessed for its worshippers; for, in spite of its unattractive appearance, it was evident, from the remnants of offerings around it and from the many stains of red powder and saffron, that it was much venerated as an object of worship.

Now, as he sat watching the shimmering heat-waves playing about it, a strange experience befel him. He did not fall asleep, of that he was perfectly sure. He was conscious, or rather subconscious, of all that was going on around -- of the regular stroke of a woodcutter's axe in the distance -- of the crowing of a jungle-cock somewhere in the scrub near his camp -- of the troops of monkeys that were beginning to invade the glade -- of the chokra's maladroitness amongst the tea-things under the veranda on the other side of the tent. He was even able to follow the animated talk of the servants over the dressing of the dead sambur, and the keen bargaining of the forest-tribesmen for their special portion of the game. And yet, as he idly watched those waves of heat and light, dancing, quivering, undulating and vibrating around the rude stone image, it seemed as though the invisible stroke of some magician's wand had suddenly dimmed the intense glare of the afternoon sun, and, in the semi-obscurity, conjured up before his eyes events that were vitally connected with himself and the secret deeds of this uncanny spot.

As he watched and wondered he saw the indistinctly familiar figure of a Brahmin standing in an attitude of great reverence before the shapeless stone. After remaining in this position for some time, the man bent down in the humblest of all Eastern salutations and began to invoke the deity in an impassioned prayer; and, as the broken sentences were wafted over to Duncan, he seemed to hear the words desire, love, revenge and sacrifice repeated many times.

Then for a flash the oscillating waves seemed to return, but only to take the forms of men and women swaying, bending and circling around the mud mound. The priest was gone; and in his place within the circle of swirling beings stood the great athletic outline of a white man, dressed in clothes that had been in vogue more than twenty years before. Over his arm hung the helpless and apparently lifeless body of a woman whose face was turned away; on his face was written a proud, brave fury as he faced the swaying crowd. The vision of the woman made Duncan tremble; the face of the sun-burnt, white man made him wonder, for the likeness of his features he had seen somewhere before.

Then once more the scene changed swiftly. Both idol and man disappeared; but the form of the woman lay stretched upon the ground and over her bent the figure of the Brahmin whom he had seen at the beginning. Then for the first time Duncan realised who it was, and began to understand the great antipathy which had welled up in him against this man during that momentary encounter at the temple entrance. He had never seen him before, yet instinct had warned him then that in Ramayya, the priest's brother, he had met with something inhumanly pitiless. And now as the Brahmin bent to gaze into the face of the defenceless woman his features glowed horribly with a smile of devilish triumph, while the horror-stricken eyes of the woman looked up at him in dumb despair. With a terrible feeling of helplessness Duncan recognised the girl whom he loved -- or thought he did.

But, before he could move to come to her assistance, priest and girl had dissolved back into the undulating waves around the idol. As he continued to look helplessly for them he beheld a new form lying within the gyrating circle of shadowy worshippers -- the form of a man, slighter in build than the one whom he had seen so proudly facing the crowd, yet whose likeness was so great that he might well have been taken for the same in his youth.

Duncan wondered about the near resemblance and the familiarity of the features, and it was only slowly that he came to realise that the latter were those of his friend, Guy Wrencroff, of the Indian Medical Service, whom he was expecting shortly to join him for a few days" shooting around the temple tope.

Duncan at last stretched himself. Everything was going on as it had been doing a few minutes before. The sun was blazing down upon the open square, the servants were still employed in their heated discussion, and the chokra was bringing in the things for tea. He felt convinced that he had not only not been to sleep, but that he had never even closed his eyes. An impudent monkey with a young one clinging beneath it had been stealthily moving towards the tent to steal whatever it might find, and he had kept his eye on its movements till it had taken up the position which it was still occupying, with eyes fixed greedily upon the , open tent door but afraid to come nearer on account of his own watchfulness.

"Too much sun this morning," he muttered to himself, as he wiped the hot perspiration from the back of his neck.

But the next moment he was on his feet gazing with a keen interest in the direction of the idol.

Volumes of smoke were rising from a bowl of burning incense in front of the sacred stone.

"That's curious," he said. "I wonder who has set that going? It wasn't there a few minutes ago. Nor was that garland of leaves and flowers on the stone!"

Feeling sure that the girl would again visit the place where he had seen her for the first time, Duncan, after spending some time on the divisional line, made his way towards the stream just before sunset. He was not disappointed. As dusk began to fall she came out of the temple gate and glided towards the enchanted spot. She wore now, as she had done the previous evening, the jewelled tiara, Shivite pendant, the mystic circlets and a golden belt; but her dress was somewhat different, being made of some soft white material, which closely draped her slender form. Her small feet were sandalled and were as fair as those of Sicilian women. In her hair she wore a bunch of white and red flowers plucked from the forest creepers.

At first, when she saw Percival waiting, she hesitated as if in doubt; and then, with a short, swift glance at him, she continued her way to the gurgling stream, where she filled the native brass pot which she carried. He moved forward to speak to her; but she saw the movement, and, gathering up her veil, she turned swiftly and hurried away. She had not gone far, however, when she stopped, took the bunch of flowers from her hair, and, without looking back, threw them on the ground. What interpretation was he to place upon this unexpected action? Was deep calling unto deep -- spirit answering spirit? Had something told her of the tumultuous feelings, which that first vision of herself had evoked, and was she now in her own sweet way telling him that she was there to be wooed and won? That swift, shy glance had given him a momentary glimpse of the beauty of her soul, as the bursting petals might do of the sweetly perfumed heart of some lovely flower. Any lingering doubts of her possible connivance at the wicked purposes of the temple priests disappeared. With heart pulsating fiercely he sprang forward; and, when she looked back from the temple steps with a smile on her lips, he was holding the discarded flowers in his hand. For some minutes he stood watching the entrance through which she had disappeared, then turned to go. As he did so, a bitter mocking laugh jarred on his highly strung nerves, as a harsh discord might jar out in the midst of an entrancing symphony. He swung round in the direction of the unpleasant sound, and there, standing under a tree and looking at him with an insolent sneer about her lips was the woman whose acquaintance he had refused in the morning. One fierce look which she cast towards the temple entrance showed something of the jealousy which had sprung up in her heart against the girl who had just entered there, and revealed the innate cruelty of a woman who would seize the first opportunity to hurt those whom she hated. Annoyed at her presence, and oppressed by the dark presentiment that she would seek a means of making the girl pay for her disappointment, he turned away in anger. As he did so the scoffing laugh rang out a second time.

CHAPTER V. AN ANGLO-INDIAN'S LAST LETTER.

"HALLO, Percy! How are you -- shot anything yet?" asked a pleasant, jovial voice from somewhere amongst the long grass. It was the morning after the events already recorded. Percival was out on one of the Indian trails that led by shorter cuts from the main track to the sacred rendezvous.

He had been so intently occupied with trying to find a way out of the increasing complications of the problem which was facing him that, for the time being, he had completely forgotten about the arrival of his friend. So the sudden vision of the latter's face, flushed with exercise and amusement, burst upon him as a pleasant surprise.

They were very old chums, these two; and, by a happy combination of circumstances, had remained more or less in close touch with each other from the old happy-go-lucky school days till now, when we find them near the temple in the tope under vastly different conditions from those amidst which they had spent their youth.

They had, during the years they had been in India, paid repeated visits to each other's bungalows and had occasionally spent a holiday together visiting the hill-stations or places of interest in southern and northern India; but this was the first convenient opportunity that Wrencroff had found to pay a much-desired visit with his friend to this wild spot which, so far as civilising influences were concerned, still remained almost untouched in its primitive savagery, but which nevertheless had for him a personal claim that made it intensely interesting.

"What kind of a journey have you had? And how in the world did you manage to hit off this place so well?" asked Duncan, after a hearty welcome to his newly-arrived friend.

"Oh, we travelled two days in the ordinary bullock-carts -- fairly comfortably, I should say, judging from the nature of the roads! By dawn, however, I had had more than enough of them, so by way of making the journey shorter and more interesting I proposed a march as straight as possible through the jungle. Fortunately we picked up rather a capable jungle-walla, and -- well! -- after a few struggles he has managed to get me here. There he is -- standing over there!"

Leaning carelessly against a tree, but watching with a curious expression in his fine grey eyes, was a splendid specimen of one of the forest-tribes. In his right hand he carried a spear -- a long-shafted, wonderfully carved weapon with its blade hidden in a leather sheath that guarded against the deadly poison with which it was stained; from his other hand trailed two dead peacocks still gloriously cymophanous as the sunlight played upon their bright-hued feathers.

Taller by some inches than Duncan himself, and at least fifteen to twenty years older, the jungle-dweller looked the very picture of physical strength and daring. Around his loins hung the customary cloth and adornments of his people, otherwise his body -- well oiled against the difficulties of tracking -- remained uncovered, revealing in its massive protrusions of muscles and tendons an existence of strenuous physical efforts.

On both forearms, and in the centre of his chest, were the highly-coloured tattoos of a cobra; while suspended from his neck was a small deerskin pouch, probably containing a charm against the evil spirits of the forest or the machinations of enemies.

"Not a bad-looking fellow," remarked Duncan, as he noted with the eye of an athlete the fine physical development. "Is he going to stay? He might be useful."

"I think he will, if I ask him," replied the other. "For some reason or other he seems to have taken a great fancy for me."

As he finished speaking, Wrencroff moved over to the man whose grim, scarred countenance beamed with intense satisfaction at the proposal. Kneeling down he touched Wrencroff's feet with his forehead, and expressed his great anxiety to serve the two white chiefs till they had no further use for him.

"Come along, Guy, the sun is pretty high," cried Duncan, seeing that the jungle-walla had agreed to stay. "Let us make straight for the tents. You must need a drink badly, and a rest also. You can't have had much sleep during the last three or four days." 
 
"Oh, I'm all right, thanks! All the same I agree heartily to the suggestion."

"I wonder," said Duncan, as they picked their way along the all but invisible footpath, "what those dreadful scars are which that jungle-walla carries about with him. He looks as if he had been almost cut to pieces in a battle."

"Yes," answered the other. "They make one wonder what the poor beggar's history has been. Perhaps he'll be willing to tell us something later on when he gets more accustomed to us. Wild as he looks, there's something unusually intelligent about him, and I fancy we're not the first civilised people he has seen."

Half an hour later the two men were comfortably seated in long canvas chairs under the cool shade of the mango trees. Large Indian coojas of water and cooling drinks of various kinds stood within their easy reach. The heat was steadily working towards its maximum; but a cool breeze was moving softly amongst the trees, and, for a moment, there seemed but little inclination to succumb to the drowsy inertia that comes with the midday heat.

"By Jove!" murmured Wrencroff after a short silence. "Doesn't that old shrine make a fine picture out there in the middle of those trees, with the dark, gloomy hills as a background. It is even a much more magnificent sight than your description led me to imagine."

"Yes; it is undoubtedly a very fine scene. One has to give the ancient Hindus credit for their topographical knowledge and their insight into the poetical attractions of their country's beauty spots. All the same I am inclined to think that that old temple is only a whited sepulchre, and has some rotten unclean-ness about it which would surprise a good many of us if we only knew where to look for it."

After this Duncan lapsed into thoughtful silence. He began to think what effect the revelation of his recent experiences would have upon his friend, and whether it would be to any good purpose to tell him about them.

"It's a bit strange, Percy; but now that I have seen the place it almost seems as if I had been here before. There's something uncommonly attractive to me, if not familiar, in that old temple and its setting. But I suppose it's simply on account of having heard so much about it from one source or another. It was, you know, around this place where the Colonel spent so much of his time towards the end. It must have been rather exciting in his day, I imagine."

"Oh, I had forgotten all about him," replied Duncan, pulling himself together, and beginning to take an interest in his companion's talk.

"Wasn't Colonel Wrencroff your uncle?" he asked, after a slight pause.

"Well, no, not exactly. He was one of my father's cousins. You may remember the painting of him as a young man which hangs in the hall at home. I am supposed to bear a great resemblance to him. After some years of extraordinary adventures he built a small fort for himself somewhere about twenty miles from here, and I thought that it might be possible for us to pay a flying visit to it, as it has one or two interesting things about it. Report has it, however, that it was all ransacked and burnt down about the time of his death. Under any condition the place is likely to be a pile of ruins by now. His last letter, which I have brought with me, throws a sort of romantic halo over the scenes of his exploits. If you'd care to hear it I'll get it and read it to you. What do you say, Percy?"

"Yes, do, old man. We've nothing else to do, and it will help us to pass the time," answered Duncan.

Wrencroff went over to the tent, and returned a few minutes later with a packet of papers that looked somewhat the worse for wear. When he had settled himself down in his long easy chair, he picked out a letter dated some fifteen years back, and proceeded to read as follows:

"DEAR OLD JACK, -- As it does to all men sooner or later the end begins to draw near, and long before you receive these last lines of mine, I shall be no more. I am not quite forty years old yet, so it is not old age, nor is it disease which has laid hold of me, but a thrust which I received in a skirmish during a night attack some days ago. It was not at all a serious wound in itself. Under ordinary circumstances and with moderate care I should have rallied, but the blade belonged to a man of the hills, and was poisoned. But why murmur? Fata viam invenient, and one blindly assists them. I was indeed suspicious when it happened, but as there was some doubt about it, I hesitated to undergo the drastic antidote which I have seen pull the natives through under similar circumstances . . . now, I fear, it is too late. More than one symptom makes me feel sure that the end cannot be far off. However, I have lived a fair span of man's life, enjoyed many of its good things, been through strange experiences -- experiences that do not fall to the ordinary man's lot, and more seldom still to that of the European -- seen life at its best and at its worst, and shall now die content -- a tolerably good Christian, I hope.

"In leaving this world on so short a notice, however, I leave one very important matter incomplete, and the one regret that makes death distasteful at this moment is due to the uncertainty connected with that unfinished purpose. It is with the hope of making the details of this matter clear to you, and with the object of invoking whatever assistance you may be able to lend in the attempt to set it right, that I now make haste to write this somewhat lengthy letter before death or paralysis sets in and forestalls my intention. I should like to feel certain that you will some day receive this letter, but I fear that that pleasure has been denied me. The chances are about even, as deadly enemies lie in wait all around, and the young hillman who will carry it to its destination may very likely fall in the attempt. He is a brave man and a faithful servant, and as it will not only serve his own purpose to outwit our common enemy, but will also provide him with an opportunity to make some return for all that I have done for him, he will undoubtedly do his utmost to carry out my instructions.

"My letters, dear Jack, have, I fear, ever been few and far between, and it must be now quite five years since I dispatched the last one to you on the eve of my departure to the Nizam's territory. But, though more than twenty years have gone by since I left England to further the interests of the East India Company and to seek my own fortune by the way, I have tried to make my letters, as few as they have been, keep you more or less informed of the great events which have marked my career out here, and you will no doubt be able to recall some of the descriptions of those lively scenes which we passed through in those early days. How the memories of those stirring events crowd back upon me at this moment as I write this, my last letter! Those long winter months, for example, which we passed amongst the Afghans, driven sometimes almost to despair by the attacks of overwhelming forces upon weak and unprovisioned garrisons and by the daily reports of merciless massacres; yet, desperately striving to maintain the British power and influence which, during the retrograde movement forced upon us, seemed doomed to annihilation.

"Afterwards -- when things had righted themselves in Afghanistan, and the prestige of the English had again been asserted -- came those restless, uncertain days in Scinde when the air was heavy with doubts and gloomy fears and everyone felt that trouble was brewing again, but no one knew exactly where to look for it, until disloyalty and disaffection were discovered in high quarters and the war with the Amirs, who had been doing their best to stir up fanaticism amongst their co-religionists, became inevitable.

"I have since heard that the ultimatum to the Amirs, and the subsequent annexation, were called at the time 'An unnecessary display of military power,' 'An uncalled for provocation,' 'A self-glorifying aggression,' 'A ruthless shedding of blood for a worthless annexation,' and a host of other grossly abusive terms. But it is always easy for those who sit at home in peace and comfort, and without any great sense of responsibility, to pass adverse judgments on the settlement of frontier problems. But we, who were on the spot, and not only saw the difficulties, but felt the danger creeping nearer, know that those who regarded it as anything but a prudent measure were both ill-advised and badly informed.

"What was it those at home were demanding -- that those who held the reins of authority out here should calmly sit still and watch their countrymen mercilessly 'cabuled'? It almost seems so; for dreadful rumours and veiled threats were running to and fro like wildfire, one's own sepoys and servants spoke of the pressure that was being brought to bear upon them to throw in their lot with the followers of the Amirs, and it was the common talk of the bazaars that the Baluchis, gathering from the mountains, were to treat the English in the same way as the Afghans had treated them in Kabul. But apart from the strength and safety which it gave to the position of the English, subsequent events proved that the policy of the Governor-General and Commander of the Forces was not only a wise measure but also a humane one; for the Scindians themselves were the first to hail with joy the proclamation of their annexation. They had lived for generations under the grinding tyranny of the Baluchis and were only too glad to place the protection of their lands and wealth and wives in the charge of more beneficent rulers. And therein, for those who care to read and learn, lies to a great extent the secret of our power in India to-day. The history of the British in India will no doubt teem with wonderful achievements of military genius, splendid deeds of personal valour and heroism, and the execution of gigantic schemes conceived by remarkable men, but these alone do not account for the spectacle which the British power in India presents to the world. There is still another factor -- the will of the millions. Had this been at all unfavourable towards the English, it would have been impossible for them to maintain for any length of time the advantages gained by their military exertions; but, wearied to death by the depredations of unscrupulous adventurers, smarting under the degrading tyranny of despotic chiefs, divided by racial interests, and exposed by their caste obligations, the great masses of the people themselves have wished to be annexed by a Power whose honour, justice and humanity they could depend upon.

"But more difficult and much more serious than the subjugation of the Amirs in Scinde were the fierce, stubborn struggles of the Sikhs near Ferozepore and Aliwal, and later on around Mooltan, Chillianwallah and Goojerat. There have not been wanting those who called this also 'an unjust annexation,' but willy or nilly, out of sheer self-protection, were we forced into that great conflict with the plundering hordes off the Sutlej, and, as you may remember, it was during the earlier skirmishes that I myself was fortunate enough to win some little distinction, and in the second campaign was unlucky enough to fall foul of a blow that laid me up for many months after.

"After a very tiresome convalescence, circumstances took me to Madras and then on to Mysore, and, more or less in the capacity of a political agent, I spent some years between these two important places, until chance, with a special opportunity, carried me to Haidarabad. Here, while negotiating a delicate mission, the sudden death of a person of high rank with whom I was in communication took place under suspicious circumstances, and the intrigues of a hostile party having succeeded in entangling me in the affair, it was only by the timely assistance of a friend and under the disguise of a Mohammedan that I managed to escape a serious charge and possibly an unjust imprisonment.

"Some time after this, accident brought me into touch with an old acquaintance who had taken to dealing in precious stones. He was greatly in need of a partner who knew the ways and languages of the people, and, at length, finding his generous offer congenial to my own inclination, I joined fortunes with him to find myself, on his death a few months later, left sole owner of our little speculation.

"My search for and dealing in precious stones brought me again in close contact with many of my old friends and enemies, the Rajahs, Nawabs and Zemindars; and, after many months of exciting adventures amongst them -- during which I was twice dacoited and stripped of all I possessed, once decoyed into a harem with the hope of claiming my jewels as a ransom, and finally condemned to death on false evidence -- I retired to this lonely spot on one of the highest peaks of the Black Hills.

"It is in connection with events which have occurred since I came here that I am now, on the verge of the grave, busily engaged writing to you, when I ought, perhaps, to be looking towards other and less worldly things.

CHAPTER VI. THE COLONEL'S BEQUEST.

"SOME four years ago, having heard that there were diamonds and rubies to be found in this neighbourhood, I got the necessary permission, procured a few suitable men, and started a settlement. For a short time everything went swimmingly; the men worked well and, though isolated, seemed content with good pay and just treatment. We did not do badly, but there were frequent signs of leakage, and a growing suspicion in my own mind of the presence of a traitor in the camp. Besides a large number of coolies and domestic servants I had managed to pick up and bring with me a man who spoke a broken form of English and laid claim to European connections. He was very dark and knew very little about European ways and I was very sceptical of his Eurasian pretensions, but he was very useful in procuring and overseeing the coolies; and, as he always seemed willing and loyal, we got on very well together. One day, while superintending the operations which were being carried out some miles away, I was surprised to hear the shouts of a great tumult that was taking place somewhere below the plateau on which I was standing.

"Searching around for the cause I soon caught sight of a large Hindu temple all but hidden away in the trees that surrounded it. In an open space of ground, not far from the temple, I was able to make out a dark shapeless mass of something around which excited crowds of men and women were moving rapidly to and fro. On bringing my glasses to bear upon the centre of attraction I found it to be a huge pyre upon which the people were placing the dead body of a man. Near by I was able to make out the person of a young girl, who was evidently in a most pitiable condition of mind. At first I thought it was only the usual signs of Hindu grief, and when some of the crowd began to handle her somewhat roughly I concluded that she was merely undergoing the customary ill-treatment meted out to the unfortunate girls whose husbands die before them. But when I saw her dragged against her will towards the dead man's pyre, then I suddenly realised that an attempt was being made to carry out the old suttee ceremony which has been gradually dying out since Lord Bentinck's decree against the murderous custom. I called some of my men, explained the position, and made them handsome offers for their assistance in helping me to release the unfortunate girl. Some of them hung back from fear of the temple authorities or from superstitious motives, but the bearer of this letter and one or two others offered themselves readily. We rushed down the hill without further delay, but I was soon staggered to see dense smoke arising from the direction of the pyre and to hear the wolfish cry of the crowd, which warned us that the work of murder had already begun. We hurried on, however, with all the speed possible, and soon reached the edge of the inhuman crowd. Many of them had never seen a European before, and were so surprised at our appearance that they parted right and left before they had time to understand our motive. As Naga, the bearer of this letter, was about to follow me through the broken crowd, three or four hillmen standing by caught sight of him, and, with a bloodthirsty cry rushed at him with their knives, and the next moment he and his companion were lost to sight in a hand-to-hand fight against great odds, with some hereditary foes against whom they had a long-standing blood feud. One of the priests near the pyre seemed to grasp the position very quickly; for he ceased his fanatical chant and called on the people to slay the foreign devil who had come to pollute them and their ancient temple. He was a Brahmin of about thirty years of age, whose face has often come back to my memory or imagination as the incarnation of deep and treacherous villainy. Roused by his appeal to guard against religious pollution some of the braver uttered angry growls and began to close in around me just as I caught sight of the girl lying in the midst of the smoke, bound hand and foot. The terror in her eyes showed that she had not even been shown the mercy of a drug. It was then or never; the flames had not mounted yet, but they were beginning to get a grip of the lower branches and would soon be touching the girl's clothing. I pulled my pistol and fired at the priest obstructing my approach -- whether I hit him or not I never knew. Later events led me to suspect that I missed him. The next moment I had the girl in my arms and was helping my two faithful attendants to fight a way through the crowd. We were soon after reinforced by more of my men who helped us to get away; and that evening we were able to convey the girl to our little fortress about twenty miles away from the place that had all but proved to be her crematorium.

"She was a girl belonging to a very high caste Brahmin family, about fifteen years of age, slimly built and in features much nearer to that delicate form of beauty that one sometimes meets with among Parsee ladies than to the Aryan perfections of the females of her own people. In time I learnt that she had been married when about eight years of age to a man on the wrong side of seventy -- the former priest of the temple at the foot of the hills.

"She was very ill for some time; and indeed many weeks went by ere she could even attempt to walk about. As soon as she could do so, however, she came forward and fawned at my feet with eyes that overflowed with gratitude.

"About this time I had to go away for some time to the Nizam's, and after fortifying the camp as strongly as possible, and warning all to guard against possible retaliation on the part of the priests, I left the place in charge of my lieutenant, the would-be-Eurasian, and gave private instructions to Naga to watch with unceasing vigilance every step of the sick girl.

"When I returned a few months later I found her strong, and in my eyes she appeared more beautiful in form and feature than any other Eastern woman that I had ever seen. It was soon evident that, in her own little way, she had begun to idealise me, and as I grew very fond of her I determined to make her my wife. By good fortune I picked up a wandering padre, and built him a little church to try his hands on the coolies in my lines. He was a very good sort, and many a pleasant evening we spent together over our cheroots, for he had ever a good breezy yarn to tell of East or West. Poor fellow, he has gone now and no doubt rests in the peace he preached. They said it was cholera that carried him and three or four others off in the night -- but I know better. It was some murderous hand that poisoned the little pool of water that supplies the fort. However, that is by the way, though I should like to tell you more about him. Three or four weeks after he had been living with us, little Sundaram and I were married according to the rites of the good old country.

"She was the sweetest and most lovable little creature in the world, with an inexhaustible mine of women's pretty devices for catching a man's fancy. I had thought myself twenty years past that sort of thing, yet I learnt to love the sound of her silken saris, and the light fall of her footsteps, till more jealous eyes of a lover never followed the coming and going of his maid. 
 
* * * * *

"The poison of my festered wounds has begun to work more rapidly than I expected, and as it is a case of vita fugit I must hasten apace if I would come to the main point of my epistle ere it be too late.

"Sundaram and I were happy -- happier than I had ever looked to be with a woman in this world, after the light-headed flippancy of little Doris in Kent. Thus matters went on smoothly for a year or so in our little fort: I carrying on my dealings in precious stones and accumulating a great store of wealth in the secret hiding places on the hill; Sundaram ever on the threshold of the bungalow to welcome me back from my wanderings with the sweetest of smiles. And so it came about that our baby was born. A lovely child, perfect in mould, and with a skin as soft and as fair as that of any little Saxon. Never had I so much joy as those two years during which mother and child seemed to grow more lovely each day in the eyes of an infatuated father.

"But the blow was coming -- a blow that was as sure in its deadly aim as it was terrible in its suddenness.

"For two years and more we had guarded vigilantly against any attempt at revenge on the part of the priests, or any sudden attack by the neighbouring hill-tribes who, we knew, were being tampered with. But nothing happened, and our fears, or rather my fears, were slowly lulled into a sense of security. Sundaram, however, would never be quite convinced that her people had forgotten her, and whenever I tried to persuade her that they would simply regard her as an outcast and leave her severely alone, she would shake her head sadly, and though her eyes were full of trust and love, yet they were apprehensive of the danger that might be hovering near. So for her sake the watch was always kept, and time passed by, bringing with it the first lisping sounds of our baby. Then the blow fell; one day I returned after a night's absence and staggered on the threshold of my bungalow at the sight of the brutal deed that met my gaze.

"Lying helplessly against a bamboo couch in the centre of the room was the body of my wife. I thought at first, as I bounded forward, that she was dead; but she was not. Her eyes opened as I drew near, and she smiled as she recognised me; but her teeth and little hands were tightly clenched, and from her mouth and nostrils trickled tiny streams of red blood. Her whole expression was that of one utterly exhausted after terrible agony. Overturned near the head of her couch was the cooja she usually drank from; at the moment I thought nothing of it, and it was only later, when one of my dogs rolled over amidst horrible convulsions after lapping up the water that had oozed from it, that I recognised in it my wife's death-cup.

"Meanwhile I glanced round for the child from which Sundaram was seldom parted even for a moment. It was gone. I looked into my wife's eyes -- they were filled with tears, and the pathetic look in them told me that she knew it was gone, and how. Everything that I could do to ease her physical torture and relieve the tension of her tetanic condition I did -- but to no purpose. She never spoke again. With the knowledge that I would have bought at the price of all my jewels she passed away an hour later, and, had I lived to a hundred years, I should never have forgotten the infinity of pathos and pleading in her eyes.
 
* * * * * 

"Well, Jack, the hour-glass seems to have nearly run out. Indeed, I thought but now that it had ceased altogether, only Naga came just in time to give me a powerful stimulant; and I think by its aid that I shall be able to finish this letter to one who has remained a constant friend in spite of the lapse of years and the separation of many thousands of miles.

"For days after my double loss I was wellnigh beyond myself with grief, and almost eaten up with a burning desire for immediate revenge. I searched everywhere; I examined all; I offered fabulous rewards; I bribed and baited each and every one in turn; I visited the temple and passed under many disguises amongst the Brahmins connected with it; but failed to find the faintest clue.

"Amongst my own people I soon discovered that there was deadly enmity between my old lieutenant, the Eurasian, and Naga, my protege. Naga had often insinuated secret dealings on the part of the overseer with certain tribesmen of the hills and even with people connected with the temple; while Raymond, as the Eurasian was called, had often accused Naga of causing strife between his coolies and certain tribesmen of the forest whom Naga secured for forest labour. And so when Naga, who had been absent with me when the terrible deed occurred, fell upon Raymond in a paroxysm of rage and grief and accused him of villainous connection with my troubles, I knew that it was largely the outcome of the bitter antipathy between them. Nevertheless, there was something inexplicable between them which so impressed me to the disadvantage of Raymond that from that time I was never quite so trustful towards him as I had been up till then. Whether my child is alive to-day, or dead, I know not. But I am convinced that those who were concerned with the suttee ceremony, are also responsible for its disappearance -- and for my wife's murder. They are also connected with the attack on the fort which took place three days ago.

"I should like to give you a description of this almost impregnable fort, and of the fight which by some treachery or other we would have lost recently had it not been for the magnificent fighting of Naga, but I fear that I have not the strength to do so. It is strange that Raymond, who held the only other entrance beside the one which we defended, has not been seen since. Whether he was killed or captured, or ventured too far out and escaped into the forest we know not -- Naga curses him and swears that he is the traitor who opened the way for the man who thrust at me from behind.

* * * * *

"I begin to find a difficulty in piecing together the threads of my narrative: my memory is becoming hazy, and my thoughts seem hopelessly jumbled, and my hand also answers but jerkily in response to the greatest efforts that I can make. Yet there is still something of the greatest importance that I must inform you about -- the secret holds of my accumulated wealth.

"It has long been the custom of these people to tattoo upon the forehead of their children a miniature symbol of their deity. My wife learnt to love the little of our religion that the poor padre had taught her, and she pleaded hard to place the sign of it upon our child's forehead, but I objected to it -- though it grieved me much to refuse her anything; so she had it placed in the centre of the child's breast.

"You have your own ties and responsibilities in the old country, and, though it takes much less time to reach this country than what it did when I first came out, I doubt much whether you will ever see your way to come out East, or dream of carrying on the search for this lost child of mine. I, however, leave sufficient wealth to enable you to send others in your place. One-third of this wealth is to come to you and your children, and the remaining two-thirds are to come to my child if ever found. In the event of its death, or of its not being found within the next ten years, two-thirds of my wealth are to come to you, and the remaining third is to be used for furthering civilisation in India in any way you may think fit. Naga, my servant, is aware of one hiding place some miles from here. While trying to accomplish a transit of some of my precious possessions through the forest, we were surrounded by our old enemies, and had to abandon everything in a cave known to Naga and his people. I doubt whether it is at all safe there, but Naga thinks it is. There is, however, a ... large store ... of ... rupees . . . and stores ... in two . . . places in the fort . . . one . . . God . . . rock . . . east corner bungalow . . . the other . . . tree . . . small room . . . good-bye . . . Jack . . . blind . . . God's hands . . . GUY."

The writing had wandered about vaguely at this point: the last lines scrawling across the ones above, as though written by one suddenly struck with blindness.

As Wrencroff finished reading the lengthy epistle Duncan's eyes had simply dilated with concentrated attention, great drops of perspiration standing thick upon his brow.

"Great Scott!" he murmured as the last jerky sentence died away. "It almost looks like Providence."

"What -- the old Colonel's death?" inquired Wrencroff with a little laugh. "Why, I thought that was just the most unfortunate -- " he continued; but, as he was about to finish the sentence, he glanced up and saw the peculiar expression on the other's face.

"I say, old man! what's the matter with you?" he asked with surprise.

Duncan laughed -- a forced little laugh.

"I don't quite know," he answered hesitatingly. "Probably my imagination has gone wool-gathering, but it is all very strange. By the way, was the Colonel's child a boy or a girl? I did not quite grasp which, from the letter."

"That we could never make out. As you see, he made rather an important slip there and forgot to mention the fact. My people wrote out to some agents in Madras, and later on even went to the expense of sending a sort of private detective to investigate the matter, but they failed completely to find any trace of the child or the wealth referred to. The business was so expensive that, in the end, they had to abandon the search. The final conclusion was that it must have been carried off when the place was burnt down and ransacked, and that some traitor amongst the Colonel's servants was at the root of all his troubles. He had evidently made all arrangements for the dispatch of the letter, and his attendant Naga, who delivered it to his agents, must have been prepared for all emergencies. Even he was never found again; though some steps must have been taken to find him. There is, of course, always the doubt that the Colonel went off his head during his last illness, and wrote under a delusion. But that seems hardly likely as the letter is intelligible enough till the end, and, even then, the disconnected sentences seem to bear out the facts of the writer."

Duncan was quiet for a little time after Wrencroff ceased speaking; then, with a curious catch in his voice, he said: "My sudden remark seemed to surprise you just now, Guy. If, however, I tell you something of its origin, it may not seem quite so strange to you. At more than one point in the letter I seemed to see a connection between it and something that has happened lately. It may be that it is only imagination on my part, but it would certainly explain one thingthat has very much puzzled me. However, listen and judge for yourself."

So Duncan told the story of his meeting with the girl at the stream, of her Western fairness in its Eastern setting, and of her history and destiny as detailed to him by the Sannyasi.

Guy Wrencroff listened to the recital of the story with as keen an appreciation as that with which Duncan had listened to the reading of the letter. When it was finished both sat on in silence, but more or less in suspense. Guy had caught some insight into Percival's feelings about the girl, and was afraid of treading on dangerous ground till he had received permission to do so; Duncan thought he saw, and wished to find, a connection between the two stories, but was doubtful as to how Guy would regard it.

"There's a strange feature about the whole affair which we've never been able to explain," remarked Wrencroff after a few minutes.

"And that -- ?" asked Duncan.

"Well, my father, as Colonel Wrencroff was fully aware, was never very well off. How was it, then, that he made no immediate provision for my father to undertake the search which he himself had so much at heart? He must have fully realised the great expense it would involve; yet nothing accompanied the letter, and there is no mention of anything in the way of financial aid."

"Yes, it does seem strange. But it may be accounted for by the fact that the Colonel's death came sooner than he expected. There is, however," he added, "one important clue which may make the whole matter much simpler as regards the child."

"What is that?" asked Wrencroff eagerly.

"Why, the little red cross," answered Duncan.

"By Jove, yes!" replied Wrencroff excitedly. "Let's look for the red cross which Sundaram placed upon the breast of her child!"

CHAPTER VII. A TIGER.

IT was past midday; the remainder of the camp lunch had been cleared away, and the two men were preparing to take their siesta. Suddenly the cigar which Duncan was endeavouring to light remained suspended on the way to his mouth, and the flickering match died out. Commotion of some sort or other had begun to disturb the woodland peace of the camp. What could it mean? whom did it concern? The growing sound puzzled him the more because it was the time that quietness and drowsiness usually took possession of all things. Moreover, there was the unmistakable sound of a struggle just outside the tent door, and presently there came the moaning voice of a man as he whined piteously, "Saheeb, saheeb!" while, mingled with the weeping voice, rose the angry expostulations of Sahib's butler.

Duncan lifted the tent door and looked out. The sight which met his gaze was comic, however serious the cause might be. Held down to the ground by his head servant, and striving to wriggle out of his hands towards the door of the tent, was one of the hired bandy-men. The man's face, contorted with real or pretended grief, might have been pitiable to behold but for the decidedly funny picture of the irate butler sitting on the spine to which it belonged. Grouped round the servants' pall, or peeping from behind the trees, were the rest of the coolies and servants watching, with great gusto and diverse expressions, for the dénouement of the conflict.

"What's the matter, boy?" he demanded in a tone of annoyance, thinking that it was some stupid quarrel between the two men; but the annoyance was more assumed than real, for he could scarcely resist the inclination to smile at the ridiculous scene.

"Just now," breathlessly answered the butler, who prided himself on his knowledge of English, "tiger done kill this bandy-man's bullock. He want to go in tent and tell master without any waiting. But I telling him both Sahibs dead-tired sleeping and must tell at tea-time. But this man demned mighty fool and never listening."

In spite of his evident preoccupation, Duncan's interest was roused by the butler's words. He knew something of Wrencroff's great keenness in the tiger line; though the latter had succeeded in bagging two or three panthers, his tiger-hunts had always been most disappointing, so Duncan had looked forward eagerly to giving his friend an opportunity of securing one of the magnificent species of feline monsters during their forest-outing.

"Do you think, boy, that there's any truth in the man's story?" he asked, when the servant at last realised that there was no longer any occasion to hold on to his captive.

"This man not very big rogue," answered the butler in his unconscious superiority. "So I think may be tiger come and catch bullock. As master knows himself, plenty people never wishing to come into this jungle -- too much tiger frighten them."

"Hallo! what's that about tigers?" cried Wrencroff, springing off his cot, and coming to the tent door.

"Do they mean there's a chance of coming to close quarters with one, Percy?"

"Yes; it seems likely that there will be a chance of doing so. I'm trying to get some information from this poor beggar here, but he is hardly reliable in his present condition."

"Saheeb! Saheeb!" moaned the wretched bandy-man, still on his knees. "See, I am only a very poor coolie. I have no sandals -- not even a white turban. I have no other bull for the dead one's place. . . . What can we do now, Saheeb, but die for want of rice? -- Dora, Dora!" And the man put his hands together, and touched the ground with his forehead in token of supplication for whatever gods or men might grant in order to retrieve his loss.

"Hold thy peace!" replied Duncan sternly. "Thou shall have the price of thy bullock -- and more! Only see if thou canst tell us more about the matter without mingling thy words with groans."

By means of a few leading questions they were at last able, from a torrent of incoherent exaggeration -- according to which the bandy-man had played an heroic part -- to elicit the fact that the bullock had really been killed. According to the description given, it appeared that the great beast's onslaught had been made something like a quarter of a mile away from the camp, among thick undergrowth, near a small pool around which the men had been grazing their bullocks.

"What do you say, Guy?" asked Duncan at last. "Do you feel inclined to sit up for this one? It is possible that it will come back for the carcass soon after dusk -- they generally do; but there is, of course, the chance that it may be late in coming, in which case I advise the machan."

"Right you are, Percy!" answered his companion with eagerness. "As you know, I'm very keen on taking advantage of all the chances that come our way, and we may not get such a good one again during our stay here. So we'll try our luck, and, if we fail, hope for better things." And Wrencroff rubbed his hands in glee, and his fair blue eyes glistened at the prospect of a night's adventure with the animal he desired so much to bag.

So orders were given, and arrangements were made accordingly; some wood-cutters who happened to be near were instructed to set up, as quickly and as carefully as possible, a large machan -- a roughly made platform, constructed of bamboos and covered with leaves and branches -- within sight of the spot where the kill had taken place. After tea Duncan set out alone to inspect the preparations which were being made, Wrencroff having decided to rest till dusk, as he had already experienced two wakeful nights.

The spot was an ugly one -- more so even than the embellished story of the bullock-man had led them to expect. The fatal pool of stagnating water lay in a small hollow, thickly surrounded by a tangled mass of parasitic creepers, dead branches, and long spear-grass. The only approach into this all but impenetrable maze was that along which the dead animal had evidently been tempted by the smell of dank vegetation -- a tiny pathway beaten down by the thirsty forest-dwellers in search of water.

It had been found impossible to build a machan large enough to hold both men, so the wood-cutters had set up a small one in the fork of a tree which overhung the kill and, when Duncan arrived on the scene, they were busily engaged in fixing up a second one over two dead stumps a few yards away from it. After expressing his satisfaction at the progress of the work, and having given a few further instructions to the men engaged in it, Duncan, with the hope of seeing the girl again near the favourite stream, made a large detour in that direction on his way back to the camp. His hope, however, was not realised. He had resolved to find some means of speech with her, but time passed and no signs of her presence were granted to him. With regret he watched the great sunbeams filtering horizontally through the trees, and reckoned less than half an hour to the time when Wrencroff and he should be silently watching from their posts upon the machans. Reluctantly, he turned to enter the temple glade; as he did so he gave one sweeping glance amongst the trees that he was about to leave behind, and was just in time to catch a glimpse of two dark figures hurrying along a small path that trailed in and out about the place where he had been standing.

"I wonder," he murmured to himself, as he strode angrily towards the tent, "whether that was simply coincidence or not. I could swear they were the same men whom I dislodged yesterday near the sambur." 
 
* * * * *

It was drawing towards midnight and both the men were beginning to feel uncomfortable and impatient in their strained positions. The situation was becoming unbearable, and the limit of endurance was so near that neither would have been able to hold out a minute longer without doing something to relieve the tension of his position, when the soft crushing of leaves warned them that the tiger was near. It had approached from behind Duncan's machan, so that for some time it remained invisible, making desperate efforts to drag the carcass away wholesale. Apparently intense hunger had made it violently impatient, for, after a few attempts, it abandoned its original purpose with a growl, and began to gorge itself with a snarl of satisfaction.

At last it swerved round towards the water, and as it stood for a second distinctly outlined with its fangs buried in its prey, both rifles rang out simultaneously. As the double flash died away it sprang round, screamed so that the forest seemed to vibrate with its yell, and then disappeared into darkness.

"Was it hit?" asked Wrencroff excitedly, as the echoes died away. "Something stung me in the back just as I was going to fire, and I'm not sure that I got in as good a shot as I might have done."

"Think so!" answered Duncan quietly. "Better not talk. May be near. Light too dim to stalk."

The machans were low down and probably accessible to the tiger; on the other hand, even the bravest of shikaris would scarcely have cared to trust himself to the long and treacherous grass; so the two men, having tried to make themselves as comfortable as possible, fell into watchful silence.

Moonlight was breaking into dawn when they got down and straightened themselves out. There was no tiger to be seen anywhere near, but closer examination soon revealed the fact that the tiger had been at least wounded.

"The best way," remarked Duncan, "will be to send for an elephant and some beaters. There's an elephant in a village some miles away on the edge of the forest, and we can no doubt get a number of woodcutters to do the beating. It's rather a doubtful business following a wounded tiger on foot through this sort of jungle. The trail, however, seems to be making towards the stream, so we might follow it as far as it goes in our direction. It's just as well to make sure which side it lies on. But for heaven's sake keep your eyes open and shoot straight whatever happens."

After stalking carefully for about a quarter of an hour, they lost all traces of the wounded tiger at a place where the stream made a sharp bend. According to agreement Wrencroff had been watching more particularly along the right side of their course, and Duncan the left.

Just before reaching the bend of the stream, the latter became aware of the fact that his companion had moved away some distance to the right. Fearing that he might have gone off on a false trail, he did not attempt to follow, or even try to keep his friend in sight, but continued his own search, peering carefully into every dark spot or hollow. As he followed the turn of the stream, suddenly a new light came into his eyes and he stood upright, his rifle hanging loosely by his side, and himself watching a vastly different scene from that for which he had been seeking. The temple girl, whose existence had bothered him all night much more than that of the tiger, was on the other side of the stream, bending over and dreamily playing with the water much in the same way as he had first seen her.

She was only a short distance from him, and he stood watching her in silence, wondering how he was to get nearer to her without frightening her away as he had done twice already.

Suddenly a rifle-shot rang out in the distance. As it died away he saw a ghastly thing occur. The girl, startled by the noise, lifted herself up and looked at him. Hardly had she done so when, on the opposite side of the stream and directly in a line with her, he saw the huge form of the wounded tiger rise from a low piece of ground where it had been crouching. It balanced itself on three legs, and the next instant it was in the air. The girl saw it and sank in a faint to the ground. As the great beast reared itself for the spring, Duncan had lifted and fired his rifle more by instinct than will, and when he looked again, through the dissipating smoke, the tiger was plunging in the stream, trying to find a footing for a second leap. For a moment it stood erect within a few feet of the unconscious girl, made a violent effort, and then rolled over, an inert mass, into the gurgling water.

CHAPTER VIII. A WOMAN'S FEAR.

WITH scarcely more than a second glance at the animal to make sure that it was really dead, Percival passed on through the stream towards the girl. He had almost reached her side, when the fainting-fit of fear seemed to pass away, and she rose with an effort to her feet. She smiled as he drew nearer; and, though this reassured him and told him that her terror had gone, yet he could not but notice the effects of the ghastly shock in the deathly pallor of her face and the involuntary shudders that still swept over her.

With rapid intuition her mind had grasped the full significance of the situation, and, whatever she might have thought or felt about him before, the eloquent eyes that looked into his revealed the hero-worship of a woman's heart that might learn to love him quickly.

According to the pretended horoscope and the old Yogi's dream, her destiny was that she should be the companion of a god.

Was this he? -- a human lover whom her heart could understand and idolise, and not, after all, the cold, fickle god whose brutish instincts and cruel nature were so glaringly sculptured on the temple walls? Was this great athletic man in bear-skin leggings, with the handsome but powerful face, the white king of her dreams for whom the guardians of her destiny had preserved her from many an evil fate? That she had been exceptionally guarded amidst an environment from which the inherited instincts of her womanhood had shrunk with intense aversion, she was only too painfully aware. But the reason of her apparent immunity had ever been a mystery to her. Had this great man, who had just saved her from the cruel fangs of the dead beast, come to lift the veil from her past and to lead her into the future? Her eyes were full of inquiry as she tried to pierce the unknown, and her mind was only subconscious of the fact that his arms had slipped round her and that he was drawing her closer to himself. For a moment she lay still in his arms, while he gazed into her small white face surrounded by the wonderful ripples of dark brown hair. But when he bent towards it she sprang back, holding him at arm's length. The soft questioning light was still in her eyes, and there was a tremulous quiver upon her lips as she asked breathlessly, "Art thou he?"

Astonished by the unexpected question, and striving to follow the train of her thoughts, he watched her face with a puzzled look; but she did not seem to understand his difficulty in finding the connection.

"Who?" he asked, after a lapse of silence. "Of whom thinkest thou?"

"Of him who was to come from some distant land to seek me -- art thou really he?" she answered, and he could not but note the painful expectancy behind her voice and the signs of unshed tears in her eyes.

"I come from a distant country, 'tis true, fair lady, as thou see'st. But whether or not I am he whose coming thou hast seemingly looked for I cannot say. Yet tell me something of the mystery that seems to enshroud thee, and perchance I may be able to assist thee."

She laughed softly; but there was a note of sadness in the sound which did not escape the listener.

"How shall I tell the Maharajah that which I know not? He can see for himself that I am not as all this," and as she spoke she made a sweeping gesture that comprehended the wild forest, the symbolism of her dress, and the Shivite temple.

"I know it, amma -- knew it when I first saw thee. Thou wert like a Western star fallen, by some ill-chance, from heaven into the midst of the idolatrous evils of an Eastern shrine. But tell me what thou knowest of thyself, and -- most important of all -- who told thee that one from a distant land should seek thee?"

"One who, because of the will of the dead, says he serves and watches till that other from a distant land takes his place. One that comes and goes like the wind, staying not in any place from fear of deadly enemies. Even in my childhood he was there to keep me from many evils, to nurse me secretly when sick, and to guard me as I grew older from the cruel blows of jealousy. When the old priest of this temple would have married me to his nephew, it was this secret friend who came to warn me that it was all false, and nothing but a covering to keep me from the foreigner. He came with others, when the priest in spite of warning was carrying on the lying ceremony, slew the young Brahmin bridegroom, and tried to carry me away. But they surrounded him in the forest and wounded him, and after that they kept me still more closely in purdah. But in spite of all he has come and has gone, and has often been near when none, not even I, suspected his presence. 'Twas he who told me that my people were other than these, and that some day one would come to claim me."

"Thy friend, lady, would seem faithful to thee and to the dead one's charge. Canst thou not tell me, what he is, and why the dead chose him?"

"Of the dead I know naught as yet; of the living I know little, beyond his faithfulness. His knowledge has been as secret as his coming and going; yet the time is near, I think, for him to speak plainly."

"If they have guarded thee so long behind the purdah, how comes it that thou wanderest here like one that is free? And," continued Duncan, "canst thou tell me what the temple Sannyasi means when he says that thou wilt shortly become the wife of the god Shiva?"

At the latter part of the question the girl shuddered, and glanced round with a quick, frightened look. Evidently the very whisper of this idea brought a paralysing horror to her.

"Who shall tell the Maharajah the dark counsels of a priest's soul?" she asked in a tremulous voice, "or the cruel desires of the evil spirits? Does he think the temple priests will be more merciful than the panther with its prey, or their hearts more open than the bloodthirsty man-eaters, with the helpless girl whose life or soul may buy their evil desires?

"They have told me that the temple was polluted many years ago, and that so long as the curse remains over it, the aged priest will not recover from his sickness. Nothing less than a new wife will satisfy the god, they say; and so to stay his anger and remove the pollution they would have me perform the ancient rites. But the 'Servant of the Dead' hath taught me from childhood that god and priests are alike as false as night that hideth a yawning pit. My heart also tells me that their desire and purpose are deeper than their words. Yet I do as one that believeth, for I have none to guide but the secret one whose promises have never failed."

"And if he who is to come from a distant land," again asked Percival, "should come too late -- or coming findeth not in thee that which he desireth, what then?"

A troubled expression passed over her countenance as if some new idea had startled her heart, and slowly a strange smile contracted her lips as she made a gesture towards the temple that might have expressed anything.

"But," asked Percival slowly, trying to see the effect of his words upon the small face that was now slightly averted, "if he tell thee that he loves thee and would claim thee as his wife -- what then?"

She lifted her head and looked with shining eyes into his; but as the answer rose to her lips she checked it, and listened intently for a few seconds. Then she laughed -- a bitter laugh.

"We are not subtle enough for those who have watched us," she said quietly.

"We have been spied upon!" he exclaimed in surprise at the fact, and at her quick perception of it. "By whom?"

"By some of the priests -- or perhaps by their spies. In this forest I have learnt to fear everything -- even the seemingly harmless leaves of the trees; more than all else I fear the priest's brother, Ramayya. My heart tells me that it was he who but now glided like a snake through the wood. He is ever like an evil shadow in my path, and I fear his wicked will even more than that of his brother. Now that he hath seen thee with me he will never rest till he hath tried to kill thee."

Percival laughed -- the quiet, assured laugh of the man who fears no one.

"Fear not on my account, amma. I have dealt with worse than this black-hearted worshipper of Shiva. But of thyself I feel not so sure."

"The priest's brother will not dare, I think, to touch me yet awhile," she answered. "For some reason he stands in awe of the aged priest whose interest it seems to be to guard me from Ramayya's evil desires, at least till the ceremony is to be performed -- after that I know not. When evil comes I have the gift of the dead one's servant." As she spoke she drew from a fold in her dress a small dagger. He held out his hand, and unhesitatingly she placed the dangerous little weapon in it. It was an Indian dagger with a beautifully jewelled handle, and he was in the act of examining the latter when some marks on the blade caught his sight. He looked at them closely, and as he did so he uttered an exclamation -- a little expressive sound which he had the habit of murmuring whenever he found an inspired solution to an intricate problem.

She was watching him anxiously as he examined the little steel blade, and knew from his expression that he had found something there which he had looked for.

"What is it?" she asked with a little gasp.

"The 'Servant of the Dead' gave thee much more than a dagger when he gave thee his gift," he answered quietly as he looked up from the gleaming blade into her anxious eyes.

"Thou hast learnt something from the writing on the knife -- is it not so?" she asked eagerly, bending forward to see the characters which had hitherto conveyed to her nothing but an impression of baffling symbols.

"Yes; there is a name engraved upon the blade."

"And the name?"

"Is the name of one of my countrymen who lost a child years ago amongst these hills."

"Ah! Tell me -- quickly! -- this child of thy countryman, was it a son or a daughter?"

"That we do not know -- yet; but it lies in thy power to prove whether the child was a daughter or not, and whether thou thyself art the lost daughter of the stranger who lived in a fort on one of the peaks of the Black Hills."

"But -- how?" she asked, in a voice that died to a whisper.

"The lost daughter carries a small red cross on her bosom which her mother placed there when she was a child -- is that not so?"

She bent her head in acknowledgment; the colour deepened on her cheeks, and there was a glad light in her eyes as she asked breathlessly:

"Ah, thou knowest something of my little mother -- is it not so? And thou wilt tell me about her, and why -- ?" Again her speech was checked by the noise which had attracted her attention already. This time it came from behind her, and even Duncan was quick enough to catch the sound of it sufficiently well to know that it was something more than the passing of an animal.

Grasping his rifle in an angry grip, he sprang forward in the direction from which it had come. But the girl saw his movement and in a second was by his side holding him back.

"Thou must not follow," she gasped. "What canst thou do? I have seen something of their ways and know that thy heart could never understand their treacheries. They are able to snare thee in a hundred ways thou canst not dream of -- stay!"

He looked into her pleading eyes as she clung to him, and in the depths of those glorious orbs saw that which made his heart beat with a new rhythm. His arms swept round her, and the next moment his lips were resting on hers.

"Thou art mine," he said, holding her near. "Thou wilt give me the right to take the dead one's charge -- now and always, wilt thou not? -- and promise thy life and love to me?"

His voice, in spite of his effort to control it, vibrated in a way that thrilled her being and told her that his love was hers.

"'Tis thine, my Rajah," she answered quietly. "All I have to give I give to thee -- by my little mother's red cross."

"Then thou must come with me now," he said, and there was the joyous sound of a new experience in his voice as he spoke. "Thou wilt be safe with me -- and happy. I have servants and friends to protect thee from the evil intentions of any of thine enemies." He would have led her away in the direction of the tents; but she stood still, shivered, and glanced round.

"It would be of no use to do so," she said in a low voice. "I must go back to the temple. The forest is alive with hillmen. I have seen them coming and going during the past few days, and they will now be watching everywhere by order of the priests. If we go now death could come to thee from every tree. And further, there are things in the temple which I must get, and papers that the secret servant bade me keep till death. Thou must think of some way to avoid the vigilance of the priests by to-night. I will be near the stream at moonrise. But guard thyself well, for thou knowest not these priests of Shiva; and, now that thou hast shown me a new way of life, I fear a hundred times more for thee than for myself."

The breaking of branches and the shouting of excited voices warned him that the servants were seeking him.

"Perhaps thou art right," he said as he kissed her again. "It may be that we are mistaken in the noise we heard. If it be in thy power, fail me not to-night. I shall make all ready, and be waiting for thee!"

As his servants broke through the trees on the one side, she glided away towards the temple on the other, leaving him regretfully gazing after her, as he had done when her beauty had fled from him the first time. But this time his heart was torn, not by a low ringing laugh, but by the premonition of tears and sorrow to come.

CHAPTER IX. THE PRIEST.

GREAT excitement prevailed amongst the wood cutters and the coolies as they came on slowly through the trees; and the steady rise and fall of one of their field songs, "Uyyo, uyyo, swami!" which they were solemnly chanting, warned the Collector that it was to the swing of some great burden they were singing. He began to wonder what it could mean. He had heard nothing after the solitary crack of Wrencroff's rifle -- in fact, he had for the time being forgotten all about him -- and, knowing something of the dangers of the place, he could hardly repress the momentary feeling of fear that swept over him as his thoughts flew back to his friend's whereabouts. But whatever doubts he might have experienced on the score of Wrencroff's safety were quickly set at rest by Guy's timely appearance. By dint of tugging and tearing, the doctor at last succeeded in escaping from the thorny clutches of some creepers amongst which he had become entangled, and, with a final bound, arrived into view on the opposite side of the stream, looking the worse for wear, but with a countenance beaming with pleasure. 
 
"I say, Percy," he cried, gesticulating wildly; "I say, old man, we've got it, and it's -- !"

Suddenly he broke off in the middle of the sentence and gazed towards the animal in the water; then, as if he did not quite believe the evidence of his eyes, he turned slowly towards the advancing group of singing coolies who, Duncan now saw for the first time, were carrying a dead tigress.

In spite of the gloomy possibilities which were beginning to occupy his mind, Duncan at once grasped the situation, and unable to resist the humour of the scene he answered with a laugh:

"No, no! You've been lucky enough to bag its mate. Heard your rifle some time ago, but thought you had gone after something else. Couldn't follow as I had my hands full with this one. However, I'm very glad indeed, Guy, that you've managed to secure one so easily this time, and congratulate you. You must have put in an excellent shot."

After giving directions for the dead animals to be conveyed to the camp, the two men set off by a shorter cut for the tents. Wrencroff was excited and would have liked to talk freely about the night's vigil and its substantial results; but the other's moody silence somewhat damped the ardour of his conversational tendency; so, after a few casual remarks, both began to pick their way silently through grass and thorn, marking with more or less vigilance the likely lairs of big or small game.

But it was habit rather than interest that led Duncan to step softly and avoid as much as possible all manner of noise. His heart was not in the sport, and his mind was most certainly uninfluenced by the usual glamour and excitement that surrounds the unexplored habitats of big game -- both lingered round a woman and the means for carrying her away in spite of the surveillance of any number of priests.

As Collector and Political Agent he had enjoyed exceptional opportunities for studying life and character in India, and, from his knowledge and personal experience of both, he realised only too well that the scheme forming in his mind was a daring one; not only would the attempt to achieve it involve a great deal of personal danger for his companion and himself, but, granting that he accomplished his immediate object and succeeded in getting the girl away to some safe retreat, he would still have to reckon with the revenge that would be set in motion upon his baukling the long-fostered plans of the temple authorities.

Such thoughts, and his growing uncertainty about the girl's safety, kept him in gloomy silence and dulled the intense pleasure which he would otherwise have felt for the results of the night's sitting.

Wrencroff and he had covered almost half the distance from the scene of the kill to the camp, and were approaching a deep rift over which they would have to cross, when a short, sharp, sibilant note of warning came from the deep shadow of a tree and caused them to halt. They waited expectantly for some seconds, but no further sound came to them beyond the distant shouts of the servants. So perfect was the stillness that reigned over the place that both had begun to doubt whether they had not been mistaken in the meaning of the sound which had seemed to them like a signal, and were about to move on again, when a great black figure wriggled noiselessly from under the brushwood, and, with a great salaam, the guide who had conducted Wrencroff to the forest glade rose up before them.

It was evident that he was under the influence of a great passion: his grey eyes seemed almost blood-red with the fire that burned fiercely behind, and his lips and cheeks were quivering, while his right hand appeared as though it would crush the spear which it gripped.

Warning them, by an expressive gesture, to follow him closely but not to make the slightest sound, he led the way through a thick piece of brush which, though apparently impenetrable, was in reality traversed by a thin trail. They had received no hint whatever as to what they were about to stalk, but from the guide's attitude it was evident to both that they were in for something unusually novel, and even Duncan's interest was at last keenly roused by the man's impressive manner. So with the trained caution of experienced forest rovers they followed silently in the jungle-walla's wake; while the latter, as if trying to take every possible precaution against their making the slightest sound, removed a dried twig here, bent an obstructing creeper there, and again removed the overhanging branches wherever they obstructed the way. In this way they arrived at length on the far side of a gigantic tree whence the warning sound had come to them.

At this spot the forest guide signed to them to bend, and then to creep; and, as they worked their way around the foot of the tree towards the place where he himself had been lying, he directed their gaze into the rift below.

They looked, expecting to see some great beast of the forest, or perhaps some fine specimens of deer quietly grazing there; but, instead of what they expected, a curious scene of Eastern barbarism met their astonished gaze.

Ramayya, the priest's brother, was standing proudly, scornfully, erect in the little open space below, and lying full length at his feet, so that all his members should touch the ground at the same time, was one of Duncan's grass cutters.

The Brahmin was speaking in a clear cutting voice, and each word as he uttered it was distinctly heard by the three silent watchers above. He was paraphrasing one of the Sanscrit slokas or sacred verses which describe the superiority of his caste.

"Thou knowest, son of a pariah dog, that the world belongs to the gods, that the gods are moved by mantras, and the mantras lie in the secret knowledge of the Brahmins. Therefore the Brahmins are really the gods of the world."

"Swami, thy words are true!" answered the grass-cutter, in terror.

"Thou knowest then that I being a Brahmin, and a priest among Brahmins, have power to do that which I have just told thee."

"Thine is the power of a god, Swami. If it so please thee thou canst do as thou hast said -- and more! Amma, amma! I am but a bit of dirt, what can I do?" whined the wretched man.

"Hold thy peace, thou miserable outcast, and listen to what I have to tell thee. The masters whom thou servest are foreign devils. They wish to defile our ancient temple which the rishis, our ancestors, built, and also to destroy our caste; so they would carry off the woman whom the god has chosen as his own dasi." 'Tis true -- thy slave knoweth it. But what can he do, the white devils never see him? They never look . . .!"

"Silence, thou senseless one. Thou canst do as I bid thee. Thou canst watch all; thou canst find out their words; and, when thou hast learnt aught thou canst come swiftly to me and make it known. If thou art idle the evil eye will seek thee out. . . . !"

"No, no, maha-guru!" interrupted the man hurriedly at the dread reference. "Thy black servant will do all as thou hast said."

"If thou failest," continued the priest threateningly, "thine eyes will fall out, thy body shall swell, and thy heart and brain shall burst -- and yet, though thou be like one already dead, thou shalt not die quickly."

"No, no!" shrieked the terrified servant. "Thy will . . . thy will . . . everything will surely be as the swami wishes."

"Nevertheless," answered the priest coldly, "I must put thee under the mantra so thou forget not."

"No, no! mercy . . . mercy, Ayya!"

"Maha Eshvara and Kalee! For right and left eye 'Irn' shall be: Yam rule thy heart -- thy limbs 'Tarn, Dam ; Brahma Brahmam . . . Moksham . . . Marnam: Gods, demons, men, each, all shall see Thy faith or faithlessness to me."

And the Brahmin having uttered this famous Tantric spell, which forbids any fuller translation on account of the elastic interpretation of the mystic syllables, disappeared, leaving the grass-cutter grovelling on the ground sand afraid to lift up his head.

Duncan and Wrencroff had watched the little scene with intense interest. It revealed to them the unpleasant fact that the temple people were already taking serious precautions against any possible move on their part. Having waited a little to make sure that the Brahmin had really left the place, and seeing that the coolie was oblivious of everything but his own fear, they rose and slipped back to the path which they had been following when the guide's signal had attracted their attention.

"Where's our man?" at last asked Wrencroff, surprised to find that he too had disappeared.

"Goodness only knows," answered the other, peering about through the trees. "He seems to have taken himself off like a spirit. It's wonderful how these jungle-wallas get about in a place like this, often, as he did just now, without even the rustling of a leaf. However, I suppose one has just to take their silent ways as a matter of course -- and get used to them."

"I wonder what's going to happen next," laughed back Wrencroff. "I'm sure there is mystery even in the atmosphere of your temple in the tope; and if feelings go for anything I fancy we're going to learn a thing or two before we leave it."

His words, though lightly and carelessly spoken, had a curious effect upon Duncan. His thoughts flew back to the dream-like experience which he had undergone while resting during the midday heat in the tope. Again he saw the changing scenes of that vision pass before his mental gaze, but, more distinctly than all the rest, there came back to his mind the picture of a man lying unconscious or dead amidst the worshippers of a heathen idol, and the face of the man was the face of him who stood before him now, the one to whom he had given the greatest affection of his boyhood and the strongest friendship of his manhood, and for whom he would willingly sacrifice all that he possessed. Were coming events casting their shadows before to warn him that the light-hearted and loyal chum of his early school days was to imperil his life for his own and another's sake in the impending struggle with the temple priests; and, incidentally, was he, in that struggle, to pay with a broken life the long postponed debt which his blood relation the Indian Colonel owed to the outraged prejudices of his Hindu enemies?

CHAPTER X. A JUNGLE EAVESDROPPER.

THEY had had their bath and chota-hazri, and now the two men lay back in their canvas chairs smoking cheroots and trying at the same time to get something like a true idea of their position. Even Wrencroff's excitement about the night's vigil and the bagging of the two tigers had died down and given way to other interests when Duncan described to him his strange adventure with the girl, and the discovery of Colonel Wrencroff's name on the dagger which she had shown to him.

"I'm very eager to see this wonderful Eastern cousin of mine," said Wrencroff; and then, with a twinkle of mischief in his eyes, he added: "I shall begin to think soon that you have been bewitched and that this lovely temple divinity is all a myth. By the way, I suppose you mean to marry her -- when you can?"

"Yes," replied Duncan with a smile. "We'll get her to head-quarters first and put her under the care of one of the ladies there. The padre's wife will be only too willing to help us in the matter, and then after that, as soon as possible! You'll, of course, stand by me till it's over, won't you, Guy?"

"I'll do that, old man, with the greatest of pleasure, as you know. But why in the name of reason didn't you bring the girl along with you. I can't imagine how you let her go again. That tricky old temple doesn't seem to me to be the place to let any girl enter when you're interested in her. Who's to say what those rogues will do now that their suspicions are roused."

Duncan laughed uneasily.

"Yes; I fear you are right there," he replied. "But there was no time to weigh pros and cons; our meeting was over in a few minutes. There were things in the temple which she wanted, and she seemed determined to return to the place with the hope of putting them off the scent. Moreover, the thought passed through my mind at the time, that there would be good reasons for entering the temple forcibly, if matters did not work out as smoothly as we wished."

His face seemed drawn and haggard as he spoke. It might have been the result of sitting up during the night, but Wrencroff thought to himself that the cause was more mental than physical.

"Any way," he suggested after a short pause, during which both had been thinking along the same lines, "I suppose we ought to make some sort of preparations for to-night -- oughtn't we?"

"Yes," replied Duncan; "but that is just where the most difficult part comes in. The forest track is about as bad as it possibly can be, and every yard for ten miles might hide a trap and every shrub a hornet's nest. What plan those scoundrels in the temple will follow, it is impossible to say; but it is evident that they mean to frustrate any attempt at a rescue, if they can do so. I have twice surprised a number of forest men watching my movements, and I have every reason to believe that the forest must be swnrming with them, simply with the object of finding out what we intend to do. The priests will, I imagine, for their own sakes, try every possible means of escaping an open rupture; but once they are forced to strike, they will do so -- without mercy, and without quarter."

"Can you trust any of your servants?" asked the doctor in a grave and somewhat doubtful tone.

Again Duncan laughed uneasily.

"You saw what happened in the rift, and who knows how many of them have been tampered with in the same way? Still I think we have a few -- two peons, who are Mohammedans, and my boy."

"And the jungle-walla -- what do you think of him?" suggested Wrencroff. "Do you think he is safe? Judging from the fury in his eyes he would seem to have a special grudge against that evil-looking Brahmin. I almost expected him to send his great spear at him."

"He would be the most useful of the lot, if we could trust him. He must know the forest as we know our bungalows, and would be able to warn us of things others would not even suspect. It all depends whether he has any connection with the temple and the people around here. On that account it is a little risky having anything to do with him; but we can call him in later and try to find out more about him."

"Have you any idea," asked Wrencroff, "how many priests or Brahmins about the temple we have to deal with, or any definite proofs that they mean to do the girl a personal injury?"

"No; but the girl has instinctively felt some great danger closing in around her, and prepared herself for it. She has been closely purdahed most of her life, and is, I imagine, extraordinarily ignorant of the world as it really exists. She knows very little about the real plans of the priests, but what little they have revealed to her has evidently made her fear that they intend to gain their ultimate object by means of a dedication to the temple god -- and she has no doubt learnt what that means during her experiences behind the purdah."

"What do you think their real motive is -- revenge?"

"That, partly; but, seeing that the Colonel is dead, there must be stronger motives, and the only one I can think of is that they hope to make the dedication of the girl in some way atone for the pollution which the temple is supposed to have suffered by Colonel Wrencroffs interference in the suttee ceremony."

"That Brahmin with the ghoulish face seems to have a special interest in the girl -- perhaps he hopes to make it an occasion for getting her in some way for himself. I can quite imagine the scene: a mad festival ... a woman paralysed by fear . . . and that human hyena. . . ."

"Yes; that is what she also fears. But I think she is prepared for him," answered Duncan. "I only hope fate will give me a suitable opportunity to settle old scores with him, later on," he added with a vicious snap of his strong mouth.

"The score is a heavy one, and I too should like to get in a few thrusts among these temple parasites for the sake of the old Colonel and his daughter," answered Wrencroff slowly.

The light-heartedness had died out of his face, and there was a fearlessness in his blue eyes, and a new sternness about his mouth which made Duncan think of the furious colonel as he had faced the crowd in his midday dream.

"By the way, what sort of a man is this Ramayya's brother," he continued. "Have you ever seen him?"

"No; but I have heard something about him and his evil influence in the District. He is the head of a large Agraharam about fifteen miles from here, and the whole brood of Brahmin dependents is as notoriously lawless and tyrannical amongst the surrounding villages as they are famous for their wealth and the unusually strict purdah of their women."

"But isn't that rather against the custom in these parts?" asked Wrencroff in surprise.

"Yes; I should say it is altogether against the usual practice. But this villainous family is somewhat isolated in a stretch of low-lying land surrounded by hills and forests, and for generations seems to have carried on a number of customs peculiar to itself. I suspect that the close seclusion of their women is somewhat in the nature of a protective measure against retaliation. The temple priest himself is, no doubt, a close connection of the one who was burnt at the suttee ceremony nearly twenty years ago, and must have been the chief instigator of that affair. Judging from the recent restorations and the preparations made in the temple, it looks as if some great attempt were being made to revive the waning influence of their ancient priestly power."

"Then there's the Sannyasi you spoke about -- and the story he retailed to you?"

"I hardly know what to think about him. He may be a deep rogue, or he may be simply one of the usual Hindu fanatics with a touch of the sun. The story he told might be one which the priests have instructed him in to tell the people in order to rouse their religious enthusiasm, or it may have been invented on the spur of the moment to explain in a plausible way the presence of such a girl here and the reason of this unusual festival. Their dedications are of course within the protection of the law, provided the woman to be dedicated has reached the legal age, and the most ignorant pujari is fully aware of the Government's great reluctance to interfere in any way with their religious privileges. So the Sannyasi may have been trying the usual method of throwing dust in the official's eyes with a view to drawing my suspicions away from the illicit object behind the so-called sacred ceremony. He made one suggestion which was somewhat startling."

"And that?"

"His reference to the possible revival of their ancient puja."

Indescribable -- isn't it?" asked Wrencroff. 
 
"Yes; but I didn't quite grasp whether he really meant the old sakti-puja, or simply the revival of some of their ancient ritual. Still, most of these priests do belong to the Tantric sect of Durga worship, and on occasion go in for many weird forms of magic and mysticism and for all sorts of outrageous ceremonies. This is said to be one of the occasions on which caste distinctions are completely ignored. That may also explain to some extent the partial seclusion of their women. They, no doubt, try to keep their own wives out of the orgies which they work up for other people's benefit, and experience has probably taught them to observe a form of purdah on the principle of 'Ab olio expectes quod alteri feceris.'"

"Then, perhaps," suggested Wrencroff, "they hope to make this dedication simply the occasion for carrying out the old licentious rite. If her beauty is really all that you describe, it may have been that which has suggested the idea to them."

"That is quite likely," answered Duncan thoughtfully. "But I still think the real purpose is much deeper -- something which has been brooding in the mind of the older priest for many years, and which is now on the point of being realised."

"I wonder," remarked Wrencroff with malicious triumph, "what the effect upon them will be when they discover that their miserable schemes have been defeated?"

"Yes; I, too, should like to see their faces when they find that the Colonel's little daughter has after all slipped out of their poisonous fangs. But, all the same, I am not at all sure about our methods of helping her to do so. The only reasonable way I can see out of the difficulty is for you to set off about dusk with our horses and some of the servants. About half a mile from here the footpath, you may remember, joins the bandy-track. Your best plan will be to wait there until I come with your new cousin; then, if all goes well, we can put her into one of the bullock-bandies which I will have sent on beforehand. If there are any signs of a pursuit, we shall have to manage somehow with the horses and go along as rapidly as possible. You will want your revolver, of course."

"But how will you come?" objected Wrencroff, who would have very much preferred to be by his friend's side from the start in case of need.

"Oh, that is, I fear, one of the weak parts of my suggestion," replied the other doubtfully. "The forest line is frightfully rough and round about, so we shall have to come as well as we can along the foot trail till we reach you. I shall have with me my boy and one of the Mohammedan peons -- the jungle-walla also if he turns out reliable."

"They will try to make it hot for us, I suppose, if they find out our plans before we get away," suggested Guy.

"There's no doubt about that. Even granting that we succeed in getting her away safely, I am afraid we must make up our minds for some sort of a rumpus later on. The temple priest is likely to have no end of influence and secret emissaries to do his will, not only for the sake of unlimited bribery, but also from sheer religious fanaticism. You saw for yourself this morning the power of their mantras."

"Yes; I can quite realise that they will be in no frame of mind to let things rest," replied Wrencroff seriously.

"In carrying out their revenge," continued Duncan, "time counts as nothing -- it is opportunity for which they wait. You know how they retaliated upon Colonel Wrencroff, and even now, after nearly twenty years, they still brood over the matter. In a case like this, which involves some of their tenderest susceptibilities on caste and pollution, neither the loss of every possession nor the sacrifice of every natural relation would be allowed to stand in the way. It is quite probable that fear alone may drive them to seek for some expiatory ceremony to propitiate the spirit of the defunct Brahmin, and to appease the anger of the temple god."

Duncan had just finished speaking when a little sound, like a suppressed cough, drew the attention of both towards the side of the tent where the heavy canvas had been drawn over the entrance to keep out the glare of the sun.

"What's that?" asked Wrencroff quickly. Duncan had risen and stepped quietly to the door. The canvas, however, had been tied down on the outside, and he could not pass through.

"I must see who that was," he answered hurriedly, as he moved towards the opposite chick. But as he stepped up to it, his butler appeared on the other side, and, lifting the light reed curtain aside, said in his usual laconic style:

"Brahmin priests come from temple to see Sahibs." Both men involuntarily started at the unexpected announcement. The struggle had begun -- sooner than they expected. The priests were, no doubt, playing a bold stroke to win; and both realised that if they meant to succeed in what they had undertaken, it would have to be diamond cut diamond -- the bold, defiant courage of the West against the deadly pliancy of the Eastern subtlety. In a second the two friends had thrown off all signs of the emotion into which the butler's words had surprised them, had assumed an air of indifference, and were holding themselves in reserve.

"All right, boy! Lift the door well up, so that it will not touch them, and ask them to come in," said Duncan in a careless tone.

A pause ensued, during which the primitive lords of creation were evidently having a struggle to overcome their reluctance to run the dangers of defilement in the unclean foreigner's tent. The men settled down in their easy chairs, and waited, wondering what the outcome of the parley between the butler and his former religious task-masters would be.

"Sahibs waiting to see Gurus," they heard him say impatiently.

"Thow knowest our customs, servant of the Sahibs. Tell thy masters that we would see them here. It is not our way to enter into their low-caste dwellings. We are high-caste -- holy Brahmins," said a familiar rasping voice.

"Our white Sahibs very high caste also," answered the butler, in a supercilious voice, which the Englishmen marked with satisfaction. "It is not their custom to come and talk with people in the sun."

"Go, thou pariah, and bear to them our request! We have something of importance to say to them," replied the same voice angrily.

"Who -- pariah?" demanded the servant, evidently trembling with outraged dignity.

"Thou!" came back the sneering reply.

"What!" gasped the offended butler. "Am I dirty like coolie? Am I naked like heathen Brahmin?" And as he walked off in anger he called back in English: "Go and be demned! Take the Sahibs your own dirty message; and may they kick your black bodies outside again!"

For a few moments there was silence, and Duncan was about to ring for the butler when the shadow of one of the Brahmins darkened the transparent chick.

"Come in!" he called in the language of the district.

The little curtain was thrust aside, and Ramayya stepped in, followed by an old man with parched brown skin, bent with age or physical weakness. They had no turbans and the upper part of their bodies was quite naked, so that the three parallel lines of vibuthi or sacred ashes stood out distinctly across forehead, breast and arms. The sacred thread hung from their shoulders, and around the neck of each was suspended a potent charm marked with the Shivite symbol.

Ramayya, on entering the tent, made a sweeping salaam; and, as he did so, permitted his coal-black eyes to glance swiftly all round, as if he would, in that one, quick, comprehensive look, take a lasting impression of all the details of the Collector's sleeping abode.

After returning the salaam Duncan pretended to write for a few seconds. He had had some insight into the younger man's character; but of the older one he had learned nothing as yet; and he wished to give him time to speak, and, if possible, to pick up some clue to his character or the real significance of his visit. But neither spoke; they stood there, in the respectful attitude of the East, waiting for the man of power to give them permission to speak by opening up the conversation.

"You are the priests of the temple, are you not?" he asked quietly, putting away his pencil, and looking the younger man steadily in the face. The latter's cruel lips twitched slightly, as he answered in a deprecating voice:

"I -- Baboo Sahib! I am only the younger brother of the high priest. I am come with him to pay my humble salaams to your Highness!" As he spoke he made a salaam almost to the ground, while the older man put his hands together, and bent his head in reverent acknowledgment.

"The Lord Sahibs, we have heard, killed two tigers this morning," said the latter in a quavering voice. "They were evil spirits that wandered about our sacred temple. But as Rama killed the evil Rakshasa, and saved the people from his ravages, so the foreigners have destroyed the fierce enemy of Shiva's servants, and they will no longer fear to come to worship at his temple." The priest paused, struggling painfully with an asthmatical cough. Then continued:

"The Sahibs are great people -- and we thank them." And the old man bent his head again over his folded hands.

"The great Priest," answered Duncan, "has spoken kindly. Will he be pleased to speak further? His words can only be the words of wisdom -- when spoken so."

"If the Circar Lord will be gracious and show favour, the poor priest his servant will not waste his time by one word more than is good for his peace."

"Speak on, Priest of the Brahmins, according to thy will. We listen with pleasure. If thy heart is as the words thou hast spoken, we shall part in peace."

"Then the Lord Sahib will permit his servant to speak -- boldly?"

"The learned Priest is free to speak as he thinketh fit," answered Duncan.

"It were better, then, for the Collector Sahib and his companion to go away from here -- at once."

"And why?" asked the Collector with assumed surprise.

"The Sahibs will not be at ease. A festival is near, and many will come and rest under these trees for a few days. They will make much noise. It is customary for them to do so when they worship their gods. But the Sahib will be disturbed, and the people themselves will be afraid of his anger, and so lose their pleasure in the festival."

"Thy words are wise, Priest," answered Duncan. "But be not disturbed in thy mind. Let the people make as much noise as they please, and let them find pleasure in their festival. If the people are happy we shall not be angry. On the contrary, we shall rejoice to see them glad."

"Let the Sahib be patient, if his servant speak still more plainly. He does not quite understand our customs. There is a great difficulty which he has not seen. The people have never seen a stranger at their festivals, and the Sahibs' lives may not be safe if they are annoyed. A crowd may hold back an angry man, but what man can hold back an angry crowd? The Circar Lord may see for himself that I am weak, and have not the strength to hold them back."

"Fear not, learned Priest. The servants of the Circar are accustomed to great crowds, and we shall see to it that this one has no occasion to be angry with them."

"If the Sahib thinks so," said the old man, lifting his hands in a gesture expressive of hopelessness, "there is no need for me to say more," and with a salaam he turned with the other towards the door.

As they were on the point of stepping out, however, the younger priest turned back, his eyes gleaming with un-repressed hatred as he looked at the two friends, and said:

"The two Sahibs belong to a wonderful people. They know many things that we know not, and perchance they are led to think that we are like pariahs, and know nothing. But let them remember that we are the children of the ancient rishis, and that we have from them means of knowledge which the fairer Sahibs are ignorant about -- otherwise they would not remain to-day. Their fates have been read in the temple, and they are dark and troublesome from to-night. The gods have been petitioned and propitiated in vain. They are angry -- and the cause always points to the Sahibs' tent. So let them be aware, and take warning. They expect the moon to-night -- perhaps they would seek more tigers. But let them be careful. The gods are angry, and it is their will that the moon shall not shine on the desired beauty of the lotus-flower to-night."

With a short, sharp ejaculation like a hiss the man passed through the doorway and disappeared, leaving the light reed curtain flapping to and fro over the spot where he had stood like an evil wizard calling down curses upon the heads of his enemies. Doubtful as to the exact meaning of the man's rapid figurative speech, Wrencroff glanced up inquiringly at his friend, whose greater knowledge of the language found no difficulty in reading the veiled threat behind the priest's warning. As he did so the question in his eyes suddenly gave place to a look of surprise, and his lips opened slightly in an exclamation of wonder.

Duncan had seen the rapid change, and, following the direction of his eyes, was just in time to see the corner of the canvas wall closed down, and something dark withdrawn.

"What was that?" he exclaimed, rising.

"A hand -- scarred, and with part of the thumb hacked off," replied Wrencroff slowly, as though not quite sure of the evidence of his eyes.

"I thought so. It must have been the jungle-walla's." 
 
"Yes; it's not often one sees a hand like that."

"That explains the little noise we heard just before the priests came in. He must have been lying up against the tent, eavesdropping. I wonder why?" answered Duncan, with a dark look on his face.

CHAPTER XI. DEMONS BEHIND DARKNESS.

THE two friends looked at each other in silence for some time. It was one of those moments during which feeling seems best expressed and communicated by sympathetic understanding. Both felt instinctively the nature of the danger that was near, and the difficulties likely to confront them; yet neither felt the need of putting their thoughts into words. Each was, in his own way, endeavouring to keep himself under control, so as to look at things reasonably. All at once the tent seemed to become unbearably oppressive for both, so Duncan rose and threw back the swinging chick of coloured reeds.

In the centre of the glade, sparsely studded with low date trees, the midday sun was once more pouring down its stream of fierce rays, somewhat suggestive of the cruel glitter in the priest's eyes. The hum of forest life had, to a large extent, died down under the increasing heat; while, under the shade around the servants' tent, two or three idle men lay restlessly trying to force themselves to sleep.

Relaxation seemed to be the order of the moment everywhere. As one glanced over in the direction of the temple, one felt that even there they were only dreamily concocting the mischief that was to be wrought. In the Collector's tent alone was there anything like resistance against the forest siesta; and there it was tense and watchful.

"Perhaps it would be just as well to have that forest guide in here to learn more about him," at last suggested Wrencroff with a shake, as if he were trying to throw off an unpleasant train of thought into which he had been unwillingly drawn.

"Yes; I believe you are right," said Duncan. "I was just thinking of calling for him. Whoever he is, it will be to our advantage to have him on our side, or, at least, to know on whose side he is."

As he spoke, he touched a bell for the peon sitting near by in attendance, and, when the latter appeared in answer to the summons, bade him bring the forest guide to the tent. But, apparently, the jungle-walla had completely disappeared; he was not in the camp, and no one had seen anything of him since early morning; and, though a second search was made for him in every likely place after tiffin, no one succeeded in finding any traces of him. So the two men were compelled to comfort themselves with the thought that he must have departed in the inconsequent manner of untutored tribes, and that, as their conversation had all been in English, he must have gained little or nothing by his attempt at eavesdropping.

According to the plan already agreed upon, the servants, excepting the tent lascars and the bandy-men, had been taken more or less into confidence, and, more than once, warned as to the necessity of acting with the greatest caution, and of being on their guard against any who might seek to tamper with them. And now, after having waited impatiently for the long hot afternoon to wear away and the time of action to come, Wrencroff had gone with the cart and horses, the frightened grass-cutter had been kept incessantly under surveillance, and, with the last fiery tint of the sunset, Percival himself was preparing to make his way to the rendezvous near the stream.

But in spite of all precautions; in spite of the hope that the girl, Nakshatram, would somehow or other manage to disarm the suspicions of her guardians, and find her way safely to the appointed place, his heart was heavy, and beat with a nervous apprehension; for the words came ringing back in his ears, with all the sting that suppressed hatred had dared to throw into them: "The moon shall not shine on the desired beauty of the lotus-flower to-night."

A few minutes' walking brought him to the spot agreed upon, and, almost simultaneously with his arrival there, the thick darkness of the forest night closed in around him.

An hour passed painfully away. Though the moon was still hidden beyond the sombrous peaks, the chaotic darkness gradually dissolved, and the outlines of the trees became more and more distinct. With the increasing light the hope of seeing the girl that night was dying away, when something flew past his face with a peculiar whirr, and struck the leaves above his head with a soft thud. At first he gave the incident little more than a passing thought, thinking that some flying insect, roused from its perch by the increasing light, had taken refuge in the tree.

But after a little time a dull glimmer on the swaying leaves caught his eye, and, as his mind went through a rapid process of reasoning, his hand involuntarily sought the revolver which he had placed in his pocket before starting.

Closer examination confirmed what the association of ideas had subconsciously suggested. Those dripping leaves were the earnest of the future hatred of deadly enemies -- the hatred of men who would strike relentlessly from behind the unknown. The sight of that dull reflection of the moonlight had sent his thoughts back swiftly to scenes in this very forest -- a man with his cheek and mouth half eaten away, a woman with terrible furrows across her breast, a young fellow rolling in agony with a marred hip -- and each time the history had been the same: a bamboo used after the fashion of a syringe, and some corrosive compound known only to the native doctors.

It was a ghastly memory of these which had tempted him to fire in the direction whence the squirt seemed to have come. But a momentary reflection made him pause before pressing the trigger, and, thinking that he saw a dim figure flitting from tree to tree, like one seeking a covered retreat, he made a dash in the direction it seemed to be taking. The undergrowth, however, increased at every step, and, as the long sharp thorns began to tear his hands and face, he soon recognised the wisdom of taking warning from the sad experience of the hasty Roman who found to his grief that "Festinatio tarda est."

But even delay itself in this case meant defeat, and by the time that he had worked his way through the tangled maze of jungle vegetation, the fleeting form of his enemy had completely disappeared. The little adventure, he soon found, had led him towards one of the side gates of the temple, so, still grasping his revolver, and prepared for any further surprises, he continued in the same direction. He had come to the conclusion that it would be best to enter the temple precincts at once, and make some definite attempt to get the girl away.

Somewhat to his astonishment, however, he found the great wooden door closed and barred. With some difficulty he made his way round to the main gopuram, expecting to find this entrance wide open as usual, as he was perfectly sure that he had never seen the trace of a gate on this side of the temple walls. If possible, then, his surprise was even still greater when he saw that his resolution had been checkmated by means of a great iron structure whose fittings plainly showed that it was part of the very entrance itself. Examination revealed the fact that what he had formerly thought was a band of iron embedded in the arch of the gopuram gateway, had, in reality, been the bottom of a heavy sliding portcullis.

The use of this piece of secret mechanism to-night, and the incident which he had just passed through, showed plainly that he had not only implacable foes to deal with, but Eastern minds of a subtlety difficult to cope with, and priests who had a great deal of local knowledge and any amount of evil influence by which they would endeavour to crush the enemy who was attempting to frustrate their plans.

Nevertheless, in spite of the possibility of a lurking enemy or a hidden snare, he proceeded to examine the other walls of the temple court, and not only found the third entrance closed and barred as in the case of the first, but also noticed that the walls had been strongly repaired wherever they had been formerly dilapidated. In some places where they might be accessible they had been ingeniously spiked.

It was evident that, for the time being at least, the temple authorities had forestalled his intentions.

With considerable difficulty he picked his way along the wall behind the temple, and as he went, his mind revolved a number of schemes by which he might accomplish his object in spite of the subtle opposition of these temple hypocrites. There was no sign of a pathway. It was all wild trailing brushwood under foot and thick foliage overhead. Moreover the mountains rose up close by and increased the obscurity by the dark shadows which they threw over this side of the temple.

Suddenly he stood upright and his jaw closed with the grim determination of a strong man in danger. A noise, close by, had fallen upon his ear.

"It is I, the forest guide, who led the Sahib's friend through the pathless forest," came in a low, steady voice which Duncan had no difficulty in recognising.

"Where art thou, friend," answered Duncan quietly, failing to fix the exact position of the owner of the voice.

"My salaams are for the Sahib's feet," came back the almost whispered answer, as the dark form of the jungle-walla loomed up immediately in front of him.

"The Sahib has the heart of a lion; but does he not desert his wisdom in following where his eyes see not?" asked the man in the respectful language of his people.

"Thou hast well said," answered Percival; "but sometimes necessity leadeth whither wisdom would not."

"True! But 'tis said that a woman and not necessity draweth the white Collector to the Hindu's temple."

"It may be so, jungle-walla. For one of thy tribe thou seemst to know much. Perhaps thou canst also tell me why it is that the priests guard her so closely?"

"The Collector Dora may be sure that what these priests do hath nothing good in it," answered the man with an angry growl.

"'Tis the truth of thine own words that hath led me hither to-night. The girl is not of their kind or caste, and we would see no ill come to her."

"The Sahib hath spoken well; but what can he do when those against him have eyes where he sees not, and a spear that is long and poisoned and nothing but a heart to meet it?"

"Nevertheless, I would, if possible, see something of this hornet's nest before rousing it up," said Duncan.

"The Dora Sahib's will is done already. If he would see into the black hearts of these Shivites, let him follow, and look at that which they think themselves alone see."

"If I understand thee aright, my friend, thou dost not love these priests any more than I do?"

"I -- why should I? They have done their worst against me and mine. They think me dead; but I live -- live to see the Maha-Praboo crush them out of existence as they have mercilessly crushed others. I! ... I hate them all," he murmured huskily as he began to lead the way.

For some distance the forest guide moved noiselessly along the dead unbroken wall; and Duncan followed as cautiously as he could. Each fall of his footstep, however, seemed to start a thousand echoes, as the twigs snapped under his weight, or the pebbles rolled away from under the touch of his boots. At last, when they had arrived at the centre of the wall, the jungle-walla stopped. For a few seconds, he permitted his hands to roam over the masonry; then, having warned Percival to keep strict guard over himself, he drew him towards the opening which he had made by withdrawing a stone. Duncan looked through the hole as he was directed, and shuddered at the ghastly sight that met his gaze. The ordinary thickness of the temple wall might have been from three to four feet in extent; but at this particular spot it had evidently been hollowed out to form an alcove to hold one of the usual images set up in the chambers attached to the temple, and so it was comparatively easy for Duncan to watch the miserable scene that was in progress on the other side of the little aperture.

On more occasions than one he had met with people concerned in family feuds who had accused each other of being Vamacharins or left-hand worshippers of the dreaded goddess Durga, or Kali, as she was sometimes called; he had also occasionally found traces of the horrible mysteries of some of these devotees who aimed at supernatural powers by magical rites, imprecations and blood sacrifices. But as a rule so much secrecy was observed to hide these Tantrika cults from the uninitiated that it was almost impossible for the outsider to find out anything definite with regard to their observances. And so it happened that now, for the first time, and that almost by accident, in the depth of this primeval forest, he was beholding one of their mystical rites. The place itself into which he was peering -- evidently a secret recess of the temple and one often used for similar ceremonies to that now in progress -- looked unearthly in the flickering light of one or two forest torches, and might well have stood for a model of some chamber of horrors as conceived in the lower regions. In the centre of the low-ceilinged room -- covered with the dust of ages and stained with the crimes of generations of fanatical devotees -- was a grotesque figure of the bloodthirsty goddess Kali, scintillating with jewels that adorned her neck and arms. Around this monstrous idol was a body of priests whose oily bodies swayed to and fro rhythmically to the sound of a low chant. Within the circle, and immediately in front of the idol, with a ceremonial candelabrum on each side of him, was the old temple-priest who had visited Duncan's tent. In one hand, which he held towards the idol, was a brazen vessel in which incense burned; in the other a human skull containing an elixir of mercury and mica, with which he touched his lips. Outside the circle, a man with wild looks and matted hair, whose origin was evidently from one of the lower tribes, sat beating softly on a tom-tom, and muttering incantations over a large basket of rice streaked with blood.

As Duncan gazed on the horrible scene the chant became louder and more mournful, and the swaying body of priests circled with growing rapidity around the great image -- each one seizing a handful of rice as he passed the basket.

Suddenly two lights near the idol which had been burning low flared up, and Percival saw with horror the motionless body of a young child stretched across the lap of the goddess; for a second only he saw all the awful details of the place -- the roughly hewn walls, the brutal outline of the goddess, the changing lights in the eyes of the mad priests, the wizened skin of the old man, the helpless infant -- then, one after the other, the lights flickered out, the torches were knocked over, and the place became shrouded in darkness.

There was something dreadfully fascinating in the scene which Duncan had just witnessed, and he would have lingered on in the hope of seeing the denouement of this unearthly rite; but the forest guide drew him away from the aperture with a sign that warned him that it would be dangerous to remain longer.

"What is it they are performing?" he asked in a low voice.

"The Rasapana Ceremony," the guide answered with a queer thrill in his voice. "The old viper feels the burden of age, and would be young again with the poison of strong fangs."

The moon was now well up over the hills, shedding a silvery coating over all things.

Soon after disentangling themselves from the thick undergrowth in the near vicinity of the temple they were able, without much difficulty, to find their way to the main path that branched from the divisional line past the temple towards the glade. Here, as if by mutual consent, they hesitated; for each was ignorant of the other's plan of action, and neither had as yet decided upon the best course to be followed.

On turning towards the guide, Duncan was struck with the curious expression upon the latter's face: he was gazing towards the temple, and about his eyes and mouth there was a dreamy wistfulness and tenderness that was so striking that it almost seemed to endow the fierce man of the forest with a new personality. "Hath the Sahib enough trust in the chief to the Cobra Tribe to reveal to him the matter that lies in his heart, and what it is that he would do with the fair woman in the temple?"

Before Duncan could find an appropriate answer to the unexpected question a strange noise, coming from the temple, rang through the night air. It might have been the last muffled burst of that death-like chant in the secret recess of the temple, or it may have been the strangled cry of some animal. Whatever it was, it was certainly uncanny, and both bent forward expecting it to be repeated. But they heard nothing more of it; silence reigned over the forest again.

At last the jungle-walla lay flat upon the ground and after listening intently uttered a sound like the cry of a night-bird. A moment later Duncan was surprised to hear the echo of it coming back from a dozen points among the hills.

When the guide rose to his feet there was the light of battle in his eyes.

"The wild beasts are beginning to move, and there is work for the Chief of the Cobras to do. It is better that he should go alone. Let the Sahib wait till the moon is higher and he shall have news then -- before, if necessary. Let him wait in patience at his tent till the jungle-walla returns!" Saying this the man moved quickly away and disappeared amongst the trees.

Duncan hesitated. He wanted to do something definite at once towards rescuing the girl, and so was greatly tempted to follow in the guide's wake. But the night had taught him that he was only a child where the treacherous forest was concerned.

Moreover, the intimate knowledge of the temple neighbourhood which the jungle-walla possessed, and the glimpses of his character which he had seemed to catch, began to inspire him with confidence. On reflection he came to the conclusion that it would be better to follow his advice. So he began to pick his way along the broader track that led back to the glade in which his camp was pitched.

UNDER the name of religious ceremonies strange and unearthly scenes had been enacted within the grim walls of this forest shrine whose origin was shrouded in the accumulated myths of ages. As in many other popular resorts of the Shivite pilgrims, men had, generation after generation, carried on the Tantrika rites in its secret corners, and heaven alone knew to what extent wickedness had run riot there in days gone by.

From ancient times, however, a more public form of ceremony had always accompanied and completed their great nature worship; but this, for many years now, had fallen into disuse from a fear lest the Western rulers, who were known to hate these dark and cruel customs, might some day attack the shrine and ruin for ever its ancient sanctity.

Consequently the place, which was exceedingly difficult to reach, though still claiming thousands of devotees, was gradually losing some of its former popularity, and attempts had been made to revive its attractions. This had been done from time to time in the customary way; but now a novel attempt was being made by means of the girl who had in so strange a fashion proved to be Wrencroff's cousin. Though the story which the Sannyasi had told Duncan had been concocted to mislead the temple worshippers, yet there was this much truth in it -- that she was closely connected with the priests. It is even likely that some wandering ascetic, who knew the circumstances under which the temple had been polluted, did actually prophesy that the pristine glory of the temple would be revived and the wishes of the priests fulfilled, if the girl were dedicated to the god under certain special conditions.

And now, prison-like and pitiless, the great barriers of masonry rose up darkly all round the temple precincts, while towering high above them the four pyramidal gopurams with their gilded apices stood out ominously against the dazzling canopy of the moon-lit sky. The cold, mysterious stillness of an Eastern night hung over the temple court. Though one felt that life throbbed elsewhere and that eyes peered vigilantly from behind a thousand secret covers, yet nothing visibly moved. It was one of those pauses during which the possibilities of nature make themselves felt in fleeting moments of exquisite pleasure or indescribable fear.

Meanwhile in the midst of these grotesque shadows and shifting moonbeams, as if unconscious of the hidden danger and the net which was being gradually drawn around her, was the girl whom the jungle-walla had called the "fair woman of the temple." She was lying on a couch of Indian silks under one of the marble colonnades built along the inside of the temple walls. Her hair trailed in a great dark stream along the soft white material in which she was clothed; and, as she reclined there with her small white face resting lightly on her hand and her lips parted sufficiently to reveal two perfect rows of glittering white teeth, she looked indeed like a veritable nymph of the woods. She was gazing dreamily into the shimmering water of the pool, and a wondrously soft light came and went in the depths of her beautiful grey eyes, as she thought of the sudden vision near the stream and the meeting over the dead tiger. Her life had been strange and lonely. With inherited instincts that put her out of sympathy with her surroundings and made her yearn for things that she had never seen, except in imagination, she had felt, and been regarded as, an alien amongst people who differed from her in almost everything. Often she had been treated as a slave by most of the women in the purdahed establishment in which she had for years been secluded; some of them had treated her brutally as they might have done a young and childless widow, and more than once she had even been in peril on account of the jealousies of some of the older and less good-looking. But she had borne all patiently under the advice of her guardian and protector from the hills, who had always warned her of danger, and, whenever he had found her sad and miserable, had buoyed her up with the vision of a maharajah coming from the far West to carry her away as his wife. He had, among other things, told her that she had seen a maharajah; but she could not remember it. Yet somehow she had made pictures of one in her mind, and he was always a tall, strong man with a whitish face like her own, only bearded with bright hair, and with a dress she had never seen in her life until, strange to say, the maharajah near the stream appeared in one like it. After all, the hillman, as he had styled himself, had been faithful to the will of the dead and had kept her safe until he had come.

Now she would go away with him, as soon as he could get her out of the power of these priests, and they would live in one of the big white bungalows, which the hillman had described to her. Her heart told her that he would always treat her kindly as he had done after killing the tiger.

Just then a shadow moved across the water. She looked towards the temple in the centre of the court, and, as she watched a figure creeping along the colonnade, she put her hand swiftly near her belt and waited.

The shadowy figure disappeared into the deeper shadows; but her keen hearing marked the stealthy approach. Oh, how weary she felt of this kind of life where all was darkness and mysterious!

Why was it people did not do those things which all might know and understand? How was it that these priests with their evil ways had so much power and influence over others whom they used only for their own purposes? What was it they expected of her at the coming festival? What did they mean to do with her? Would they give her sleeping medicine and then burn her as they sometimes did the widows, or would they make her perform some dreadful ceremony with the idol of the great god and then leave her here in the forest to look after him? Would they cut off her beautiful hair, as some of the women tried to do at the fatal marriage ceremony when the old priest had prevented them by terrible threats? Then there were those dreadful stories which the women in the purdah used to tell in the evenings, of the awful things that had been done in the temples. Surely these could not be true! Rather than have anything to do with them she would use the hillman's gift. But there was still the big white God he had told her about -- the God that was so wonderful and so much stronger than these cruel, spiteful gods. He would come to her help now that the maharajah had come! What was the latter doing at this moment! Perhaps he was angry because she had not gone to the stream as she promised to do! But then she would show him that it was not at all her fault. They had watched her all day; and after sunset she had not been able to find a way out because all the exits had been closed. To-morrow -- ! At that moment a dark form stepped from the shadow of the marble column and stood between her and the moonbeams playing on the temple pool.

She rose to her feet and faced it fearlessly. It was, as she had expected, that of the priest's younger brother. He had come straight from the rasapana ceremony in the temple recess, and there was a touch of unbridled madness in his attitude. His ghastly head, stripped of all its hair and dully reflecting in the moonlight, had the appearance of a skull with two green lights in its sockets.

"Nakshatram!" There was something dreadful even in the way he spoke.

"Well!" she answered haughtily. Repressed anger vibrated in the word; for she knew that this man was vile to the core and would have no mercy on her. She had scorned both prayers and threats. Her attitude, cold and regal, as she stood before him with the folds of her soft sari trailing on the marble pavement, held him speechless for a little while.

"Speak!" she went on tauntingly. "The panther prowls to prey on -- what?"

"You must come!" he said, making an effort to speak calmly.

"Whither?" she asked mockingly.

"To the temple."

"And why?"

"There is Durga-puja -- a sacrifice to the goddess that she may be favourable towards the festival, and let it pass well."

"Then go and serve her. I do not love her as thou -- who art her priest!"

"But it needs a woman."

"Then seek one."

"I do."

"Go!" she cried angrily, pointing towards the temple. "Thinkest thou that I, who am of the blood of the white rajahs, would share with thee thy vile worship?"

"Of the blood of the white rajahs!" he repeated, in astonishment. "Who told thee so?"

"One who may yet make thee answer for much."

"And yet in spite of him thou shalt still come with me."

"Never -- never!" she answered.

"Thou shalt! And crawl at my feet to be permitted."

She laughed scornfully.

"Ah! dost thou think that this foreign infidel who prowls round the temple will help thee?" he asked with a sneer.

"What is it to thee -- that which I think?"

"This; I tell thee that he shall never have thee -- nor thou him."

As he answered his teeth gleamed, and his face twitched in a horrible grimace.

"And who will stand in the way?"

"I!"

"Thou!" and again she laughed scornfully. "One crushes a snake without pity, when it crosses one's path."

"But sometimes the snake bites first -- without pity."

The cool assurance in his voice made her feel suddenly faint. Instinct told her that the Collector was unlearned in the depth of guile to which this man could descend. But she bravely took up the challenge again and steeled her voice to a note of mockery.

"And thou?" she said.

"I? -- I have bitten already."

A cold feeling swept over her again and a cry rose to her lips; but she repressed it, and answered coldly.

"Thou art false, and, according to thy wont, liest."

His only answer was a cruel low laugh. For a moment they watched each other -- the one disdainfully, the other with bright green lights gleaming in his repulsive head.

"Go!" she at last said, with a movement of contempt.

He drew nearer. She did not flinch; but she was alert and quivering.

"What wouldst thou?" she demanded curtly.

"Thee! I go not alone," he answered hoarsely.

"And I -- I go not with thee. No -- never! Wouldst thou know why?"

"Speak if thou wilt -- I doubt not thy tongue burns to move like all women's when they are angry."

"Because I hate thee, as I have told thee before. Thy heart is as dark as night without the stars."

"'Tis a mite that maketh no difference," he said with a sneer.

"Nevertheless, there is one that doth."

"Which?"

"The Collector Sahib in the temple tope," she answered quietly.

"Chee! Hast not heard the wise saying that 'a mite becometh less than a mite by leaving its place empty'?"

"And the Collector?"

"Will go as he came, but -- by another way."

"If thou art so wise and wouldst have me believe thy dark sayings, tell me by what path the Collector will go back whence he came?"

The words were apparently spoken lightly; but behind was the wit and desperation of a woman who seeks to know the nature of the danger that surrounds her lover.

"By that which the temple oracle hath pointed out to-night," he replied with an evil smile that contorted his face into a demon's.

"The wicked inquire at evil oracles and receive that which they seek. Doth not the wise saying speak so? Thine oracle is like thyself -- false!" she answered angrily.

"Thou wilt think otherwise when the sun findeth the white jackal dead, and his den deserted. Take heed lest to-morrow thou find thyself scorned as to-day thou art sought."

Her face was very white and her limbs trembling as she turned fiercely upon him and answered:

"I, too, have an oracle. Listen to it. The white stranger shall not go away empty-handed, nor shall he die -- at least, not until thou hast long been lost in the oblivion of thy creed."

"Chee, chee!" retorted the priest impatiently.

"The temple oracle hath more than one wisdom wherewith to speak. If the foreign devil die not, another shall die in his place."

"Who?"

"Thou!"

"Perhaps! I do not fear the big sleep. It were better to have entered it long ago, than to dwell in this place of evil deeds and dark secrets."

"Yet there is a way to escape both temple and death," he suggested eagerly.

"How, dark priest?"

"Obey and follow that which I will show thee," he answered.

She laughed, and the priest was quick to hear the bitterness and mockery behind the sound. The green light flickered again in his wild eyes as she said:

"Ever back to thyself, O Priest! Temple, oracle, festival are all for thy purpose. I tell thee it shall never be. Thou knowest better than I how deep are the shadows that lie between me and thee, and why it is my desires can never be as thine. Thou knowest the past which is all hidden from me, and even of the present I am but a child in knowledge, as thou art aware. Yet, though I understand naught and thou all, there is, nevertheless, that which warns my spirit to shun thee as the fawn shuns the wild beasts. Go! thou left-handed worshipper of Durga. Seek thine own lair and thine own kind!"

"Beware!" cried the priest, quivering with anger under the sting of her words. "It is in my power to make thee take back the bitterness of thine own speech. Hark! Thou mayst hear for thyself the circle of priests as they do their puja to the goddess. Her spirit has taken possession of them, and who can answer for them while they are her slaves?"

"Well, what is it to me? I serve not the goddess as thou dost," she answered with assumed carelessness.

"Thy words will be less proud if the priests bid thee join their circle. There is one who may quickly show them why thou shouldst. 'Tis for thee to choose."

"Go? black-hearted Shivite. Thy soul will perish in the evil it hath sought. I fear neither thee nor thy brother Vamacharins. There are others stronger than they. Thou also beware! For the God I serve is not Durga. 'Tis one thou knowest naught of, but one thou mayst well fear."

"Thou wilt regret thy words."

"Never!"

The priest watched her with gleaming eyes as she turned aside with a contemptuous shrug. Then, like a wild beast ready to spring on its prey, he drew stealthily nearer to her. The arches of his eyes and the corners of his mouth began to twitch convulsively as the eyelids half veiled the green lights.

"Nakshatram," he said hoarsely. "Come! Let it be peace with thee and me."

"Peace?" she asked bitterly. "When heardest thou of peace between the slayer and his victim?"

"Thou wilt repent too late -- like thy mother!"

"My mother?" she cried, springing round and facing him with a new light in her eyes. "So thou knewest her?"

He laughed at her question -- a low cruel laugh that made her shiver.

"She too was beautiful," he said, after a slight pause during which he watched her closely; "but not as thou."

"Ah!"

Again he paused as if taking a cruel delight in the painful suspense into which his words had thrown her.

"Speak on, priest. It is not oft thy words have made me wish to hear more. Thou hast said she was beautiful?"

"Yea; as our women are counted. It has long been the custom of our temple priest to take a child-wife in his old age. Thy mother was chosen to bring back the youth of the old priest of her day, and to accompany his soul to moksha. As he was of our family I saw her often, but not so often as I should have liked. The old man was jealous and I was young, and she more beautiful than any other of our caste. The old priest died, however, and I would have taken her in spite of much opposition, for all knew that I might succeed some day to the temple."

"And she?" asked the girl breathlessly.

"She?" he answered with a laugh that made her shudder. "Oh! she preferred the suttee."

"The suttee!" exclaimed the horrified girl with tears in her eyes. "Was she burnt, then?"

So great was the conflict of passions that swept over the priest that he was unable to articulate the words that rose to his lips. "Nay!" he at last burst forth in an angry snarl. "All had been prepared; the sacrifices offered; the mantras sung; the two bodies placed upon the pyre, and the pujari was on the point of lighting the wood, when the foreigner came and carried her away!"

"And the foreigner -- who was he?" she asked eagerly.

"One who lived on a peak of the Black Hills. One who from being a great fighter for the foreign lords had become a seeker after fine stones for the Rajahs. The gods curse him for the evils which he brought upon our country and for polluting this ancient temple of Shiva! May his atma come back among the jackals and pigs to be eaten by his own father and mother! May mountains of misery fall down upon his people so that they become like dust trodden under the feet of elephants! May their land be devoured by Durga as the long grass in the dry season is licked up by the forest flame! Ha, ha! Let Shiva's vengeance fall without pity on all his enemies as it fell on the white thief who stole a jewel more precious to his servants than fine stones!"

"Whither went the warrior of the white rajahs.

with the jewel that belonged to thy caste, O Guru?" she asked, ignoring the curses in the latter part of his speech.

"Back to his mountain refuge, as a hyena that creepeth back to its den with a corpse. But the occasion cometh to him who watcheth, and, though it was long in coming, we waited not in vain."

"And when the time came, Shivite priest, what did he?"

"Ah! little thought the foreign devil that it was in our power to strike at any moment. We hated his presence from the beginning, and, before ever the suttee ceremony had come to pass, we had placed with him one of our own people who knew something of his strange ways and speech. 'Twas through him that we learnt of his coming and going, and his hopes in Sita, whom he called Sundaram. 'Twas he also who removed out of our way all that might interfere with our revenge when the time was ripe for it. Patiently we bided our time till his happiness seemed complete -- then we struck. My heart had burnt with anger for two years against Sita, and I had begun to think that she was no longer anything to me. But I found her even more beautiful than before, and, as I wished not to see her die, we offered her life to work our will upon the foreigner. She would not even listen to our offer. Thou wert a child playing at her feet; we picked thee up and threatened to kill thee. But though she grew wild with fear, and pleaded with tears for thee to be spared, she would not listen to my words. So we carried thee away for the temple, leaving thy mother without the prattling tongue which the mountain thief loved, and with only enough life that he might see her beauty fade before his eyes."

The girl's heart burnt with anger and sorrow at the picture of her mother's sufferings. She had inherited the instincts of the west, with all their finer sentiments, and her soul suddenly longed to twine itself around this child-wife who had suffered so much through no fault of her own. Though she would have gladly hidden her feelings from this human parasite before her, she could not keep back the tears that sprang to her eyes, or the bitter words that came to her lips.

"O pitiless priest! thy face is that of an evil atma and thy heart as bloodthirsty as the goddess whom the Vamacharins worship. Take heed lest thine own fate be not more terrible than that which thou hast wrought for others. Thou hast cursed the white warrior, and his people, as thy mouth is ever ready to do with those whom thou hatest. But do not even the Tantras say that 'He that curseth is cursed,' and it may be that the God of the white maharajahs will, as I have heard, demand back drop for drop of the blood that has been shed."

"What hast thou to do with the white man's God?" demanded the priest through his teeth. "Hast not heard that thy lot is to serve the temple god? To pay off the debt thy mother owed wert thou brought here, and the old priest, my half-brother, would have had thee pay it long ago had it not been for the yogi's words, which bade us wait patiently for the auspicious moment. To keep thee from the knowledge of the stranger, and from their prying eyes, hast thou been closely purdahed from thy childhood. But now that the time draws near I am reluctant to see thee suffer that which the oracles have pointed out as thy destiny; for thou hast brought back the memory of thy mother made more beautiful, and I would, if possible, save thee for a kinder fate. The way is still open -- the priests are, as thou canst hear, under the spirit of the goddess; the festival is drawing near, and to-morrow may be too late. Choose thy fate -- and forget not that the gods are still more cruel than men?"

The girl stepped back with a look of scorn as the priest made his final appeal. Again she stood proudly amidst the folds of her white trailing cloth, like some eastern queen making a momentous decision.

"Guru, thy soul is too dark to understand anything of the visions that pass through mine. Each word thou utterest adds to the flame that burns in it against thee -- the slayer of my little mother. See," she cried, pointing to the pagoda, under whose shadow they were standing; "better far that that should crumble on my head than that I should pass behind thy purdah as one of thy women. I have spoken!"

For a moment there was a tense pause between them; then: "'Tis true thou hast spoken," replied Ramayya, in a voice trembling with fury, "but thy words are empty. Thou canst not escape me as thy mother did. The temple walls are high, the white jackal is licking his poisoned wounds, and the priests are waiting for thee behind the garbhaliam. Come!" he cried, as he sprang towards her.

But, with a cry of terror, pain and baulked desire that rang weirdly through the forest, he bounded back again, for his arm had crossed the bright gleam of the hillman's gift.

CHAPTER XIII. AN EVIL GENIUS.

IT was some time now since Ramayya, the priest's brother, had slunk off towards the dark colonnades of the temple. That swift and effective repulse with which the girl had met his attack had completely taken him by surprise. For a few seconds they had faced each other; the man like a beast of prey hesitating to spring; the girl outwardly calm, but with a sinking heart, as she wondered what his next move would be. Her quick imagination at once suggested half a dozen ways by which he might outwit and disarm her. But some deeper plan of vengeance must have crossed his evil vision, for, with quivering features and a scoffing laugh, he had turned abruptly away and disappeared in the direction of the eldritch sounds to which he had called her attention.

Since then silence had reigned over the place, but it was not the silence that brings peace -- only that intense stillness that tells of a coming storm. And Nakshatram, the unwilling high-priestess of the temple, knew it. The look of supreme scorn with which she had faced her foe had given place to one of painful apprehension. The small white face, with its high-typed Eastern mould and its European touch, which had seemed so wonderfully bewitching to Duncan in repose, would now have touched him to the quick with its drawn and haggard appearance. She knew that Ramayya would return. When he did, what could she do? What means of escape could she find? As he had scornfully pointed out, the walls were high and the entrances barred. After all, had she not done foolishly in coming back into this tangle of treacheries? Surely it would have been better to have listened to the passionate entreaties of her white lover; with him she would at least have tasted the sweetness of danger or death. Whereas now -- only the great God knew!

Though the Temple in the Tope was, strictly speaking, only a Shivite rendezvous -- and even then the peculiar possession of a Tantric sect -- efforts had been made, in accordance with a common practice of Hindu sacred places, to make the shrine as universally attractive as possible, by including deities of all shades of belief. Consequently, besides the many and varied representations of the god and goddess of the temple, other popular objects of worship could be found within its walls. In one secluded corner might be seen the war-like Rama -- the great hero-god of India's millions -- and by his side his friend and ally Hanuman, the Monkey-god; in another corner Brahma -- the lotus-born of Nadayana, and the first in the Hindu Triad -- was immorally depicted as a god persecuting his own daughter; over the mantapam or porch of the gopurams were sculptured scenes connected with Vishnu; the man-lion tearing his enemy to pieces, Krishna (another incarnation) as a child stealing from the Gopis, and, again, as a youth, tempting the virtues of the shepherd wives; throughout the choultries the coarse, brutal forms of village deities had been set up, as, for instance, those of the goddess of cholera, the goddess of floods, and the goddess of crops; while all over the court might be seen the more primitive carvings of the totemistic forest tribes.

Conspicuous, however, beyond all others, and infinitely more sinister in appearance, was a life-sized idol of the goddess Durga -- representing not so much the female counterpart of Shiva, as the entity Maha-devi, goddess of blood, revealer of magic, and supreme female deity of the Hindu Pantheon. This, if rumour carried truth, was the evil genius of the temple -- the moving spirit behind all the terrible deeds said to have been enacted around the shrine.

The truth is that, whatever the early traditions connected with this temple might have been, the ritual and worship were no longer Shivite; they were, and had been for some generations, almost solely Durgite.

This particular icon of the goddess was certainly unique both in appearance and effect. It stood out by contrast in every way imaginable from the cruder specimens of art around it, and in features and pose there was something inexpressibly diabolical.

Cut from a fine block of black marble, it presented in perfect detail the outlines of a female form, and was so beautifully finished that it might well have been the prize possession of a museum of classical art. One foot of the image rested upon the breast of a headless corpse, while the other was poised as if in the wild swirl of a religious dance. In one of its hands it held the bleeding head of the slain giant, and in the other a great sacrificial knife. Two other arms were so arranged that one appeared to beckon, while the other madly gesticulated.

Around the neck of the goddess hung a ghastly necklace of small ivory skulls, whose teeth gleamed with gilt and whose eyes flashed with some sort of iridescent glass.

Her own head, small, slightly tilted backward, and inset with two large rubies for eyes, to represent her under the influence of "soma," was a masterpiece of Aryan beauty -- sensual, cruel, revengeful. Moreover, genius seemed to have spent itself in intricate devices to give the single headpiece a multiple of characters, and, according to the delusive suggestion, it might be a nautch girl in her wild self-abandonment, a murderess amidst her crimes, a goddess inviting passion, a human being depraved and unsexed, or a demon at large, and, in turn, it seemed to leer, lure, cajole or lash with curses.

Its effect upon its devotees, as seen in the licentious orgies of the Durgite festivals, was indescribably demoralising; and, by way of proving that her power extended over the unbeliever, the priests were accustomed to relate instances of sceptics who had come to scoff, but had returned slaves to the passions she embodied.

Consequently, year after year, enamoured lovers, disappointed women, tottering cripples, decayed senility, thieves, thugs, usurers, litigants, astrologers, quack-doctors, refugees, and a host of others came with their gifts of jewels and money to crave her help through the magical rites of her priests; and, in her name and under the cloak of the idol's religious sanctity, violence, rapine, dacoity, human sacrifices, and unbridled orgies were organised and carried out.

The more illicit the boon craved for, the more ready, it would seem, the goddess was to be favourable -- provided always that the offerings were commensurate with the thing desired.

"O Devi, eat, cut and destroy!
Cut with thine axe, drink the blood drawn!"

Such was the special mantra which the priests sang to her in their sonorous Sanskrit, when she had been adorned in her magnificent jewels. It was then, also, that they chanted from her own special sacred book the Kali Purana about the varying merits of sacrifice until the grand climax was reached and the people, maddened to fanaticism by the description of a human sacrifice; to meditate and drink "soma" at her feet was to desire her mystic circle; to offer the flesh of an animal was to obtain blessings in proportion to its value; but to smear her breast with blood -- the blood of the offerer or his enemy -- was to gain a portion of her power and to enter partly into her essence.

And now as she stood there under her gilded canopy, in the moonlit space between the central pagoda and the colonnade where the scene described in the last chapter had taken place, there was something unusually evil about her appearance.

At least, so it seemed to Nakshatram, who, in spite of her horror and fear of the idol, had been irresistibly drawn nearer to inspect it. As she stood before it, trying to read the enigma of its being and influence, she began to imagine that the eyes of the goddess were gloating over her as over a destined victim. Hardly had the uncanny idea formed itself in her mind when an unearthly noise caused her hand to move suddenly to her heart and an aguish spasm to sweep over her frame. That fiendish chant, which she had heard with the priest, had again broken out upon the stillness of the night. This time, however, it was much more ominous; and it seemed to the unfortunate girl as though the ancient vaults of the place had opened to reveal some of their ghastly secret rites. The fear that had seized her was quickly justified; for, a moment later, a number of forms began to approach from behind the temple, and, as they came towards her, with the priest's brother at their head, she knew that the latter was revelling in the prospect of an immediate vengeance.

CHAPTER XIV. DEVA-DASIS.

NAKSHATRAM'S first impulse was to hurry away and hide herself from this approaching batch of incarnate fiends whose ghastly appearance realised all her fears and gave a pandemonium-like reality to the weird suggestiveness of the moonlit court; but she made no effort to do so. Her limbs seemed powerless to obey her instincts. Spellbound, like one in the clutch of a painful nightmare, she stood listening, wondering, dreading.

The hypnotic influence of the lifelike image and the increasing phantasmagorical effect of the scene were strangely combined to suspend the freedom of her thought and action. Moreover, when the confused thoughts surged up in her mind they were decidedly unpleasant and only increased her unnerving perplexity: whither could she go except to the solitude of dark retreats where greater danger lurked? Why prolong the resistance against her fate, when the impending struggle was inevitable? Ramayya, her hereditary foe, was no doubt at the bottom of any evil that was being specially directed against herself, so would it not be better to meet him openly? Surely there must be a little humanity amongst the others which she might yet be able to call up in her favour? Then again, was there not the coming festival in which she was expected to play an important part? What that part was she did not yet understand, but it must be something of vital interest to some of them -- especially to the old priest who had so jealously watched over her since she was a child. That was perhaps a card which she might try to play as a last stake in order to delay the evil hour. If only she could avoid the conflict till dawn, her lover by then would probably have found some means of escape for her.

Buoyed by this glimmer of hope her mind became more lucid and her thoughts more distinct, and, with a desperate effort, she fought against the feeling of faintness which had begun to paralyse her senses. And it was well that she did so, for during the momentary hesitation the band of temple sycophants had drawn so near to her that she could now even feel the contamination of their hot breath upon the air as they crowded around the Durga idol. With features and limbs working convulsively and brains burning with incipient madness caused by the horrible mixture which they had just been drinking, they were indeed a dreadful sight for any woman to behold, and well might a sterner nature than Nakshatram's have shrunk with fear and loathing from their wild and debauched looks.

As her glance swept swiftly over the priestly band she caught the bright glitter and gleam of jewels beyond, and realised that there were women also coming from behind the temple to join in whatever mad freak was about to be committed. But the fact brought her neither hope nor comfort; if possible her unsullied womanhood shrank still further inwardly. It was worse than useless expecting any help or protection from these. She had seen one or two of them since she had come to the temple, and knew what they were -- to some extent. Instinct filled in what the purdah had whispered with bated breath, sometimes with envy, sometimes with horror. They were Deva-dasis -- temple slaves. Their darkened eyelids, bold stare, insidious perfumes, dissolute gestures, the lyric they were lisping, would have warned even the most unsophisticated that there was something radically wrong in their nature. And most certainly there was; for by character and vocation they were little better than a species of human vampire that wallowed amidst the ruins of a great people.

Like the priests, they too were labouring under the influence of some powerful excitant, which was gradually working their minds into a furious condition and disturbing the equilibrium of their movements. With much greater justice, then, than she herself was even aware of, had Nakshatram shrunk away in doubt and fear from those who ought to have formed for her a natural bodyguard.

As though irresistibly drawn that way, Nakshatram's glance passed on from the Deva-dasis to a man who was evidently different from all the others -- a great, powerful individual, as black as a negro. This man, with a skull in his right hand and a small drum in his left, had gone straight up to the idol, and after prostrating himself before it, had risen and cried "Drink, Kali -- drink! 'Tis that which thou lovest!" He was performing the great sacrificial rite to the mother of earth; for, though he was no Brahmin, yet he was a member of one of the aboriginal tribes whose pujaris claim, and are granted, precedence over Brahmin priests, during certain blood sacrifices to the goddess. Having uttered his Bacchanalian petition to the idol he proceeded to sprinkle it with the red fluid in the skull, then, after touching his own forehead and throat with it, put the ghastly vessel to his mouth and passed it on to the others. Each of these in turn touched their thumbs, toes and ears with the liquid, and, before handing the skull to the next, drank from it.

Nakshatram shuddered and turned away in disgust. She did not know what the red liquid was, nor the inner meaning of the sacrificial ceremony, but the whole scene was revolting beyond endurance. Had she known the truth, she would have shuddered still more, for it was the priest's pretended "soma" drink -- a drink said to be of celestial origin, but in this instance a concoction of ganja or bhang mixed with the life stream drawn at the primitive rite of alchemy in the secret recess of the temple.

"Let Ida deal with her," cried a woman's voice.

"Yes, yes -- let Ida give her the wine of the goddess to make her dance merrily," murmured a swaying priest, who was making unsuccessful efforts to set fire to some incense on an iron thurible.

Ida was the woman whom Duncan had met on the jungle footpath. She was the great favourite of the temple, and had practically been queen of the Deva-dasis since she had come to the shrine. As a dasi she had always been known in the temple as Ida, and was called so after the wife of Manu -- the ancient Hindu law-giver -- because she was supposed to assist the priests in the interpretations of their oracles by means of her powers of pyromancy which she had inherited from a long line of ancestral temple-slaves. She was, as many had found to their sorrow, un vrai dragon -- cruel, capricious, imperious -- and woe betide the man who refused her the desired allegiance, or the rival that crossed her whims. Terrible indeed were the stories that were whispered of her mad freaks in the temple during the festivals, and of the deeds which she had done in the company of a bold dacoit who lived in a secret hold somewhere in the hills behind the temple.

"'Tis said, amma, that thou art to be given in marriage to the god, so to-night thou canst learn with us the duty of a wife."

The words were soft and musical; but in the eyes of the woman who spoke them there was a cold evil glitter that Nakshatram might have interpreted as the sign of a triumphant revenge had she only remained long enough to see the vindictive look that was on Ida's face when the latter watched her pass through the temple door at the time that Duncan carried away her discarded flowers.

As it was, she could only draw herself away from the baneful glare of the woman, as one might do on suddenly meeting with a snake across the path.

Ida saw the shrinking movement and laughed sarcastically.

"Thou art proud, amma, for -- for a would-be Deva-dasi," she said in the same soft voice as she drew near again. "But thou wilt soon get over that -- see!" And the next moment Nakshatram felt an excruciating pain pass through her brain from somewhere beneath the ear, which brought tears to her eyes and would have made her shriek out in agony had she not clenched her little white teeth in a vice to prevent herself from doing so.

"Now thou wilt drink to the goddess, perhaps, and let the priests proceed with the ceremony -- is't not so?" asked the same voice.

Nakshatram held out her hands for the skull, and, when she had received it, raised it, then, as she watched the sneering smiles of the Deva-dasis, hurled it with all her might over their heads into the temple pool.

Something like consternation seized the crowd of intoxicated temple servers at the sight of this sacrilege, which might well rouse the anger of the goddess. Even Ida seemed speechless for the moment as they turned their eyes questioningly towards Ramayya.

"It matters not," he said in a voice of restrained fury. "The goddess has drunk and is evidently filled. Let her have her joy now before she sleeps. See to it that her new dasi learns obedience in her mystic circle."

The sound of the drum increased steadily in its evil insistence; the swaying body of the pujari moved more rapidly to its wild accompaniment; gold and silver ornaments began to click and tinkle sharply; there were swift sinuous movements and a deep inspiration of breath, and, before the girl could make any form of resistance whatever, she found herself the centre of a double ring, the inner part of which was formed by the dasis who were beginning to intertwine their fingers in a mystical way called the mudra with those of the priests who formed the outer circle.

At first slowly, then with increasing rapidity, the double ring moved round with Nakshatram as its pivot, and with greater and greater viciousness the dasis twined and untwined their fingers as the volume of their warlike cry increased.

Suddenly the inner circle became merged in the outer; the pujari was beating his drum furiously, the voices of the temple women were singing in fierce short outbursts, and Nakshatram felt herself dizzily swaying to the gyratory motion -- the fatal immoral circle, or chakra, as it is called, of Durga's great nature worship had been formed, and Nakshatram was in the middle of it.

Instinctively she realised her peril.

In a few more seconds these men and women would collapse, insane and insensible to all sense of human decency.

With her thoughts flying towards her white lover her hand sought for the hillman's friendly dagger.

It was gone!

She had no time to reason how, for the next moment she was swept off her feet and carried round in the great swirling circle with the thought beating on her brain that her last hope had been stolen from her.

Then something wonderful happened: a bright gleam, like the passing of a white wing, sped silently through the moonlight. A death-like rattle rolled through the court -- the pujarVs drum stopped in the middle of its mad roll with a sort of gulp -- the sickly gyrations ceased with a staggering motion -- and, as Nakshatram tried to steady herself against a dusty monolith, she saw priest and dasis gazing with fear towards the now satiated goddess.

"See, it is the spear of the cursed Naga tribe," cried the voice of Ramayya. "They have returned to keep their word and have their revenge."

With shrieks of terror, rage and disappointment the unnatural Durgites fled towards the central pagoda.

Standing where they had left her in their sudden flight, Nakshatram saw the black figure of the pujari lying stretched at the feet of the goddess with a spear still quivering in his breast.

And the shaft of the spear was long and supple and marvellously carved to represent a cobra with a slightly expanded hood.

CHAPTER XV. THE SERVANT OF THE DEAD.

"NAGA!" she gasped.

The fiendish revellers, spurred by a drunken vision of a well-merited vengeance, had hardly disappeared behind the main block of the temple buildings when the dark form of a man of unusual proportions moved noiselessly from under the trailing branches of the banyan tree.

With eyes that blazed forth a terrible fury he glanced round as if searching for a hidden foe, then swiftly crossed the moonlit space behind the tree and the fantastical idol. For a moment he lingered near the limp and huddled body of the dying musician; and, as he gazed down at it, his grim silhouette stood out like that of an avenging spirit looking with fierce satisfaction at a deed well done -- or well begun; then, with an impatient gesture he wrenched away the spear from its deadly hold and turned to approach the still trembling girl.

"Naga!" she repeated. "Is it really thou?" And, as the broken sentence escaped from her lips, a motionless figure, squatting cross-legged after the manner of a Buddha idol, in one of the niches of the wall, seemed to wink its eye at the strange twists of destiny.

"'Tis I, little amma. 'Tis Naga, thy slave!"

For a space they looked into each other's eyes like those who would read at a glance the sum total of inexpressible things hidden away in the heart. And the man's heart pulsated with a thrill of gladness as he beheld the exquisite beauty of this child of strange destiny whose life and honour he had guarded so rigorously from behind the shadows of the unseen; while to the woman's face there came the soft glow of affectionate admiration and trustfulness almost filial in their nature.

"Nay," she answered gently, referring back to the lingering slur upon his last word. "That were indeed a poor name for one who has been so faithful a friend and foster-parent all these years. Without thy ceaseless vigilance and timely help how many times would life have been still more unbearable than it has been amidst these pitiless followers of a bloodthirsty goddess? And now, once more, hast thou come to save me from things much worse than death."

As she spoke all the fierceness seemed to die out of the man's deeply-scarred face, and there was a pleading pathos in his voice as he answered:

"It is, indeed, a great reward, Nakshatram, if I find but the place of a faithful dog in thy heart."

"Reward!" she exclaimed. "'Tis but little return that I can ever give thee for all that thou hast done and suffered for me. Would God the dead, whose memory thou lovest so well, had lived -- if only to thank thee for thy faithful kindness."

"The dead! Ah, I too could wish the dead had lived -- to see thee. For thou art beautiful, little one, in mind and body, and the dead would have died gladly in knowing it. They have done their worst in this hell-born place, but thine existence is still as sweet as that of a lily untouched by the parasites in the swamp around. I too could wish the dead had lived -- then, indeed, had Naga been happy!"

At that moment a shriek of mad laughter came indistinctly from the vaults of the central pagoda.

"Ah!" breathed Naga scornfully. "The wild beasts are back at their play. The fumes of the bhang are clouding their fears and soon they will be lying helpless in the goddess's drunken sleep. Fear not, little amma, thou art safe from their fangs to-night at least."

"And to-morrow, my friend?" she asked meaningly.

"To-morrow? Perchance it will be the end of many weary waiting years for Naga -- if Naga lives."

"If not?"

"Others will take his place."

"God forbid! But the others -- who are they?"

"There are many, but -- the white ruler in the tent at the temple gate is one." He spoke slowly as if to watch better the effect of his words.

She uttered an exclamation of surprise, and a new light came into her eyes, as he completed the latter part of the sentence.

"So thou knowest him also, Naga? 'Tis well. Tell me what thou knowest about him -- when thou sawest him last, and how he fared? Ramayya, the false one, said but now that he was wounded and that his wounds were poisoned. Is it truly so, or has Ramayya's tongue followed its usual fashion of lying?"

Fear quickened her speech and the hillman was not slow to mark the paling of her cheeks at the mental pictures her own words suggested.

The intense anxiety behind her words could not but sadden him. She was the only thing on earth on which all the love of his strong and passionate nature was concentrated. For her sake he had risked his life time after time against terrible odds, and for her sake, during the seventeen years of her troubled existence, he had suffered things far beyond her conception. And now, for the first time, he saw the veering of her deepest affections towards another. He had looked forward to a day, however distant, when he would be able to get her away from the vile intrigues of these cursed enemies, and visions of his old age spent quietly amidst the warmth of her strongest affections had passed through his mind. But now, another had come to usurp his place in her life and affections. The light in her eyes, the tremor in her voice told him that her heart was no longer her own; for good or evil she had let it go out to one whose will and word she would eagerly obey, even though they drew her away from him to the other end of the world -- and that in spite of all he had suffered for her, and in spite of all the love which worshipped the ground on which she stood.

It was hard, terribly hard, that he and his feelings should be consigned to the wild and, for him, purposeless life of the forest. But, he acknowledged to himself, it was natural. He had himself kept bright the light of hope in her breast by means of visions of the future, and so was it wonderful if, with the advent of the first similitude of his own created ideals, her wonderfully pure but strongly romantic nature had moved spontaneously towards the love-call of the white Collector?

It would indeed be hard to lose her; but then how often had he been prepared to lose everything -- even his life -- for her sake; and, if he only knew that she would be perfectly happy with the one her heart had chosen, his own love for her was such that he would gladly seek any form of oblivion that would ensure her happiness.

If pain and doubt quivered in his heart he showed no outward signs of them as he answered quietly:

"I saw the white ruler near the temple wall less than an hour gone, and he went unharmed. He waits without for a means of entrance. Heaven, not his wisdom, saved him from the trap that Ramayya had set to catch him."

"Thank God!" she murmured. "'Twas I who bade him seek me at moonrise; and, since Ramayya came with his cruel words, my soul has been oppressed with dark fears for his safety. His nature is too straight to follow the crooked windings of these Durgites' guile."

For a moment there was silence while he watched this new look in her face, marvelling within himself at the strength of these forces which had been roused so recently within her.

"When I would have sought him at moonrise, near the stream where we first met, the way was no longer open for me to do so, for the gates were all barred in a way that told me that I was indeed a captive. Since then I have done little but tremble -- for him, not for myself, even though that happened which thou thyself witnessed. So thou see'st, Naga," she continued with a pathetic smile, "his life counts much in mine."

"And so," asked the hillman, with the whimsical look of one who is not sure whether he will like what he has asked for, "thou art willing to leave thy old Naga to follow in the foot-trail of the white ruler?"

"Willing to follow?" she asked with that soft ripple of laughter that rang like a chime of bells in the heart as well as the head of Percival Duncan. "My heart is impatient to go to him, but not, my friend, to leave thee. I would have thee also go with us. To leave thee behind would be like leaving part of myself. So promise, Naga, that if it be God's will that we should get out of the coils of these serpents, thou wilt not desert thy little amma for thy wild life of the forest."

There was a glad light in the tollman's eyes as the voice he loved more than anything else on earth pleaded thus temptingly with him.

"There would be naught else for Naga to do but to lie down and die, if thou shouldst have no further use for him," he at last replied.

"Then, it shall be as I say," she said, smiling at him. "Whither I go thou shalt come also, to take care of his life as thou hast taken care of mine. Let us leave this place at once while they are hidden in the temple. Thou hast spoken of to-morrow, but why not now?"

He shook his head sadly.

"It is impossible. Though the priests are mad with their puja, yet the gates are barred, and the place well guarded -- "

"But, Naga," she interrupted him hurriedly, "why should we not go back by the way thou thyself hast come? I hate this place. Every minute here is like a life of torture. I would dare anything rather than stay in it another night. See, I can be brave as thou knowest. Whither thou leadest I will not fear to follow, and," she added with a smile, "beyond the temple there is the Collector Sahib."

He sighed heavily at her words.

"Would that it were possible to do so, my little one! But thou, how couldst thou pass along the tops of the trees like the squirrels, or silently under the grass like a snake -- thou who hast been cooped up for years like a deer in a cage? Nay, we must try some surer way than that. Thou knowest how many times we have failed hitherto. We must not fail this time; for the priests have ripened their plans for something unusually evil. Night and day the forest is alive with the Lingites, whose murderous deeds widowed so many Nagite wives; while the pilgrim passes and the roads are unceasingly watched by their friends the dacoits. Hast thou by any chance heard what it is they purpose to do during this festival which they are preparing with so much care in honour of Shiva?"

"Ramayya, the priest, has said more than once that the time had come to dedicate me to Shiva."

"God curse them for the spawn of the devil," cried the hillman in a voice trembling with rage. "Did he tell thee, little one, why they had chosen thee, and how it was to be done?"

"He said it was to remove an old pollution of the temple connected with my mother; but he said nothing of the manner of it beyond that they intended to perform the dedication at the festival which is to be held the day after to-morrow. He showed me a way to escape the dedication, but the way led to his own wicked self, and I tried to make him understand that he was as hateful to me as his mother-goddess."

"They are all devils incarnate," replied the hillman through his teeth. "May God's judgment fall quickly upon them and their evil den! But thou art not so helpless as they think. The Nagites are collecting, and we wait -- "

Suddenly the hillman broke off in his angry speech, and bent his head forward as if he were trying to separate all the murmurs of the forest into intelligible language.

"Listen," he said hoarsely, "that is the Nagite warning of danger." A sharp sibilant sound came from the top of the banyan tree, and, as they both listened breathlessly the distant hoot of an owl fell on their ears, and was repeated at intervals as though the bird were coming nearer. Then silence fell on the forest.

The man's face, grown tense with the approach of the sound, relaxed, and he groaned as he said: "He has fallen into a trap."

"What is it?" asked the girl, shuddering with incipient fear.

"The priest's watch-dogs have not watched in vain; something has happened, and -- "

"To the Collector Sahib?" she could hardly gasp.

"Nay! to his friend."

"His friend!" she exclaimed, wonderingly.

"Ay; the Collector Sahib was not alone. There was another with him -- one whose voice and face brought back to me strange visions of the past. And well it might be so, for he is of thine own father's blood, and near of kin to thyself. In form and features he is thy father made young again -- a sapling, lithe and full of promise, but untried, for the strife and danger which made thy father what he was have passed him by, and left him still pliant."

"Ah," she exclaimed, "then thy promise has at last been fulfilled, and they have come from that distant land to seek me. Is it not so?"

"Aye; it has at last come true. Like thee, I have often wondered why they came not sooner, and have had bitter thoughts against thy father's people. But it seems they sent someone who could find no trace of thee or me, for thou wert closely purdahed, while I -- I was chained in my prison beneath the temple. Even the fort where we lived when thou wert a child has disappeared, and by the time that I was free those who had come to seek had returned to their native land with empty hands.

"By chance the Collector Sahib and his companion, thy kinsman, seem to have found thee here, and to-night they were to have made an attempt to get thee out of this jackals' lair; but others seem to have outstripped the white men's wisdom. Evil has fallen to the share of thy relative; and, if we are to get thee away to-morrow, much must be done before dawn. Fear not, little amma, for more than one pair of eyes are watching over thee. Do not enter the temple-keep to the open -- and if danger threatens thee give the Nagite call. Moreover, Ramayya's brother, the chief priest, has some scheme of his own. He wishes thee no evil before the festival. I have not been able to fathom the depth of his desires, but I heard him utter a mantra over his brother to keep him from hurting thee. Be brave, daughter of the Mountain Chief, and Naga will return -- this time with his tribe to help him."

He gave her a long look of inexpressible love and loyalty, and turned away. As he did so a glint on the ground caught his eye, and with an exclamation of pleasure he stooped down and picked up the little jewelled dagger which had played such an important part that night.

"See!" he said; "thy little friend is here. I saw Ramayya slip it from thy girdle as the dasis surrounded thee. Keep it close, for it might still do thee a kind service."

She looked him steadily in the face as she took it from him.

"I shall be patient and brave as thou hast ever taught me the daughter of the Mountain Chief should be. But, Naga, if I fear, it will not be for myself. It will be for him whose heart beats now with mine -- thou wilt see that no harm comes to him; is it not so?"

"If it lies in Naga's power thou shalt see thy chosen one again."

"And -- Naga -- one thing more before thou goest, for there is a great hunger in my soul -- for my little mother. Heardest thou what Ramayya said of her?"

"Nay," he answered, and there was a queer gulp in his throat. "I came not till those daughters of Kali were beginning their freaks. What said the falsehearted priest?"

"He said she was to have been burnt at the suttee, but the Mountain Chief with whom she mated came and carried her away."

"For once the liar has spoken the truth in his rage," answered the hillman bitterly. "Thy mother, Sundaram, belonged to the highest of this land. She was beautiful beyond compare, and her nature was as gentle as a dove's. Her very beauty and purity made the vampires of this cursed shrine crave to destroy her. When the warrior who took her refused to let them work their wicked will upon her, they turned their floods of hate upon him, and invoked both gods and devils to curse him and the helpless child whom he had made his wife. The time has come for thee to learn what has been hidden so long from thy knowledge -- for thy good. A little more patience, amma, and thou shalt know all if Naga lives -- if not, keep still the warm place in thy heart for his memory, when thou learnest the contents of those papers which thou hast guarded so faithfully."

As he dragged himself away unwillingly from her presence, he made the peculiar sibilant noise which she had heard once before that night. Almost instantaneously two black forms like huge monkeys slipped along the gigantic branches of the banyan tree, and dropped softly to the ground. For a moment he stood giving them directions, then suddenly disappeared. The two black shadows crossed the open space, gazed down with hatred at the body of the pujari near the idol, then spat on it.

"Linganna, the head of the Lingite murderers, has at last been bitten by the cobra's poisoned fang," said one fiercely, as they lifted it and carried it towards the temple pool.

"Aye," answered the other as the body slipped into the sacred water; "may all the Lingites follow quickly in his trail."

A few minutes later, as the leaves of the tree up which they disappeared were settling down to rest, the motionless Buddha-like figure in the niche of the wall gave a little gurgle of satisfied wonder as at another strange twist of destiny; then noiselessly moved towards the central pagoda.

Had one been near enough to distinguish him from the shadows of the colonnade he would have recognised the temple Sannyasi whose mental condition had always been a matter of doubt in the mind of the District Collector.

CHAPTER XVI. DUPED.

SOMEWHAT more than a mile away from the temple in the tope, and towards the open plains, the deep but narrow course of a mountain torrent crossed the rough road that traversed the forest along the foot of the hills. The water that came down in it flowed from a spring on one of the higher ridges, and, as a rule, was little more than two or three feet in depth at this point.

Near the stream the forest track broadened out into a large irregular open space, then tapered back gradually into its normal width of a dozen yards, and rose steadily over uneven ground till it reached the point where we first met with Duncan listening to the distant splash of the cascade.

A chatram, or rest-house, had been built on this open space by some pious pilgrim for the use of his weary wayfaring brethren. After the manner of its kind, it was simply a long, three-walled, flat-roofed building of mud and stone, with a miniature temple built into the main wall, and a sacred tree at each corner of the open side. Age and ill-usage had damaged it sadly, but, for those who cared to use it for such, it still provided a convenient halt during the midday sun, and a slight protection against the inclemency of the weather or the prowling of animals at night.

About the time that Duncan set out for the rendezvous near the stream, Wrencroff and his little party arrived at the open space near the chatram. As an hour at least must elapse before Duncan and his companion could reach this open space which had been agreed upon as their meeting-place, and as it was necessary to save the animals as much as possible for the long and trying journey before them, Wrencroff ordered the bullocks to be unyoked, and fodder to be supplied to them and the horses. By the time this was done the dusk had already begun to obliterate the clear outline of the more distant objects. After seeing his orders carried out, Wrencroff took up his position against a large boulder near the stream, and, having nothing else to do, was beginning to draw mental pictures of this cousin of his whom he was so soon to meet, when his attention was drawn towards his Mohammedan peon, who was saying in a suppressed voice: "Kya hai, kya hai?" with reference to something he had noticed on the forest line.

"A man -- lame!" remarked the syce, after a pause, during which all eyes were fixed upon the advancing object.

"No, no!" objected the bandy-driver. "It is a man and a woman -- and the woman is lame."

And, following their gaze along the forest line, Wrencroff himself was able to distinguish the two forms as they slowly approached. To judge from their slow and limping gait they had travelled far and were very weary. It was soon evident that the woman was not lame but blind. The man was guiding her by means of a long pole which she held on to with her right hand; while with the left she balanced an ordinary earthen cooking-pot on her head.

Arrived at the chatram, the man muttered a swami and a grunt of approval at having arrived at their journey's end; then, having unslung the dirty cloth in which their food was tied up, he dropped the bundle on the floor, and settled himself down by its side. With the uncertain movements of the blind the woman groped her way into the chatram, and followed his example.

"Who are you?" at last asked the syce, when the pair seemed to have recovered somewhat from their fatigue, and were preparing to share the cold rice now spread out on two plates of dried mango leaves.

"Sudras -- from Rangapuram," answered the man as he began to twirl the rice into a convenient ball before dropping it into his mouth.

"Rangapuram?" inquired the bandy-man with genuine interest. "Rangapuram -- in the west -- over the Red Hills?"

"Aye; 'tis fifty miles to the Agraharam which we passed before noon. Is it known to thee, friend?" and the man's weary eyes lighted up with pleasure in anticipation of a new acquaintance.

"Know it?" exclaimed the other with a touch of scorn in his voice. "'Tis my wife's own village. She is the daughter of Maduva-reddy."

"Oh, ho, Maduva-reddy! 'Tis the village munsiff himself, and he lives in the terraced house by the village gate. Is it not so?"

"That is he," answered the bandy-driver with evident pride.

"Ubba!" murmured the stranger in surprise and admiration. "Thou are indeed fortunate to have one so rich for a father-in-law."

"True, friend!" replied the other, who was a man of no mean standing in his own village. "May Bhagava keep him safe, for he has been good both to me and my wife! But tell us what it is that brings thee here?"

"Uyyo!" breathed the stranger dolefully. "'Tis said that a gold bangle to the goddess of the temple will bring a boon, so my wife brings one as she has been growing blind for some months and would be cured again."

"Oh, ho; oh, ho!" murmured the listeners in the sympathetic fashion of the country.

The dusk had turned to darkness by now, and, with the deepening of the gloom, the men's voices dropped to a whisper.

"What is it thy wife has in her pot?" asked the peon who was of an inquisitive turn of mind.

"It is nothing -- a little toddy -- that is all. When we passed through Ethapalliam -- the toddy-drawers' pettah near the priests' Agraharam -- we were very thirsty; and, as we could get no good water, we got this to refresh us on our way; but, as you see, we have not needed all of it. Moreover, the taste of it is not much to my wife's liking at any time."

With fitful bursts of conversation the time passed by. Wrencroff remained by the boulder near the stream, which was only a few yards away from the chatram. All his senses were keenly alert, and his hand was never far from his revolver. The arrival of the two pilgrims had greatly annoyed him, but they were such wretched-looking creatures that he had not the heart to move them on with the darkness rapidly increasing. Though he wished them far enough away, he did not see how they could in any way interfere with his own plans; so, with a bad grace known only to himself, he had let the matter pass unnoticed.

With the first suggestion of the rising of the moon he ordered the bullocks to be yoked again, and inspected both them and the horses when everything had been prepared. When this was done, he again warned the servants to be on their guard; and, having noted the sleeping forms of the exhausted pilgrims, he returned to his position near the rock with the instinctive feeling of having something solid behind his back.

At first the light was dim and uncertain; but as the moon rose slowly above the hills everything stood out distinctly in a silvery glamour as if called into existence by the touch of a fairy's wand. An hour passed during which the stillness of the forest remained unbroken but for the heavy breathing of the bullocks and the occasional stamping of the horses.

From where he stood, Wrencroff could now make out the figures of his three servants: one sitting against the pillar of the chatram holding the horses' bridles, the peon lying on the floor just within the chatram, the bandy-man patiently sitting upon his uncomfortable perch.

Suddenly the growl of a bear broke on the night air, followed by the scamper of a herd of spotted deer; a few minutes later a panther appeared in the middle of the road less than a hundred yards away, looked at the party for a time and, having satisfied its curiosity, walked quietly away into the trees.

Wrencroff sighed as he thought of the sport he was missing, then he stretched himself, and walked over to the chatram.

"Syce!" he called quietly. But there was no answer.

"Syce!" he repeated a little louder, thinking he had spoken too low; but again there was no answer.

In a quick stride he reached the man's side and shook him angrily for going to sleep under such circumstances. But there was no response, and the man toppled over quietly on to his back, letting the bridles trail through his helpless fingers.

"Peon," he called fiercely; but the peon answered him no more than the syce, and his fierce call seemed to echo back with the unearthly chuckles of the spirits of the forest.

Then with a gulp and with a bitter laugh, he understood the position. As he passed to the horses his fears were realised. The girths of the saddles were cut; the yoke of the bandy lay quietly upon the necks of the bullocks but the leading ropes and fasteners were gone; his men lay drugged and -- the pretended beggars were gone. A metallic sound rang out as his foot knocked against some object. He bent down and picked it up. It was one of the stirrups on the leather which had been cut with the girths.

"You blind idiot -- you consummate ass!" murmured Wrencroff to himself as he realised how thoroughly he had been duped, and he was on the point of cursing his unpardonable stupidity in still stronger terms, when the sound of rushing feet made him swing round sharply towards the chair am. He was not a second too soon, for as he did so, his eye caught the gleam of a long knife, and the large naked body of a powerfully-built man was almost upon him before he could do anything to avoid the would-be murderer's onslaught. With the instinct of self-preservation, however, he grasped the leather of the heavy steel stirrup in his hand, and, with all his might, struck at his assailant's face. With almost mathematical precision the little weapon descended with a terrible smash between the man's fiercely glaring eyes, and sent him to the ground with a groan.

Wrencroff had little or no time to think of the narrowness of his escape from the sinister weapon that went spinning with a flash through the moonlight; for his foe had hardly fallen backward to the ground when two others rushed from behind the little building and tried to fling themselves upon him. The nearest of these he instantly placed hors de combat with his heavily booted foot, and then with the hope of gaining time to get at the revolver in his breast pocket he jumped backward. Unfortunately his foot caught in something that caused him to stumble. Before he could recover himself his third assailant was upon him, and the next moment they were on the ground engaged in a struggle in which, it was evident, little mercy was expected to be given or received. Wrencroff himself was far from being a novice at wrestling, but he quickly recognised the superior skill and strength of his opponent and the little chance he would have if the struggle continued long. So, dropping all other tactics, he used a trick learnt years before as a medical student, got at his opponent's throat, and gripped it for all he was worth, then gave it a peculiar twist calculated to prove effective, if not fatal, in a very short time. Almost instantaneously he had the satisfaction of feeling his enemy's hold relax, and was endeavouring to struggle to his feet, when a crashing blow descended upon his own head, and he toppled over unconscious and helpless amidst his unknown adversaries.

* * * * *

The sun was already well above the hills when Wrencroff at last struggled back to consciousness. For hours that had seemed interminable, mad visions and shadowy foes had chased each other through his fevered brain. But now, as the sunlight began to slant through the trees and the morning breeze to fan his burning temples, the semiconsciousness [which had so often baffled his painful efforts passed away like the sudden lifting of a mist, the kaleidoscopic medley of mental pictures settled down into the distant outlines of a woodland scene, and he lay in a bath of perspiration increasingly conscious of the gipsy-like caravanserai around him.

At the moment Wrencroff opened his eyes the air seemed to throb with the pulse of vigorous life -- not so much with the wild unfettered life of the forest as with the more familiar forms of it. Laughter mingled with the burr of voices; feet pattered to and fro accompanied by the jingle of ornaments; the soft strum of a stringed instrument floated up among the trees -- angry execrations followed the sudden hissing of a fire that sent up a strong smell of garlic.

Without attracting any undue attention to himself, Wrencroff was able to count about thirty men resting or moving about among the trees.

All were marked on the forehead with the same symbolic sign -- the sign of the Hindu goddess in one of her worst forms -- but a glance was sufficient to reveal the fact that, though at one in their profession and dedication, they were men of vastly different castes and, in some cases, of very different races.

The women also of this roving band seemed to represent all the different types and classes of the country. Amongst them were girls with fair skins and red silk trousers who had evidently been abducted from Mohammedan harems; there were also high caste Hindu women, equally fair in skin but of a much more oriental type of beauty; others had evidently been drawn from some of the lower castes, women with darker complexions, perhaps, but with forms and features hard to rival, while even three or four Brinjari maids helped to increase the picturesqueness of the scene with their many-coloured tinselled garments and their wonderful array of crude ornaments.

Wrencroff soon recognised the peculiar character of the people amongst whom he had fallen. He was in the midst of a band of dacoits dedicated to Durga -- a species of religious fanatics who infested the country wherever prey was plentiful and refuge easy. He had often heard of these lawless bands that carried on their brigandage under a religious oath, and knew from experience in connection with hospital cases, that they were practically all-powerful within the sphere of their depredations; for it was common knowledge that they held the villages in abject terror, and compelled them under terrible threats to supply all their needs and to hide all traces of their retreat. Their spies were everywhere, while members of their league could be found acting as Government clerks, village magistrates, policemen, and taliaries, and not infrequently the rich landlords and merchants were involved in their infamous deeds. Hence to trace or to capture them was almost impossible, because the sources of assistance were so many that the warning of danger was always far ahead of the danger itself, and failure to warn in good time usually meant death or mutilation to those who were unfortunate enough to fail in the duties of their allegiance.

A sudden disturbance was created amongst them by the arrival of a man who rushed into the grove and began to talk with much excitement and a great deal of gesticulation. His forehead was low and bulging, his eyes intensely dark but expressionless, while his nose and lips were negroid in their shape and thickness: a man with some affinity to the aboriginal forest tribe, and yet not altogether a forest-dweller, as his loin cloth and the arrangement of his hair showed.

When he had done speaking a sharp order was given by the man who seemed to be recognised as the leader; the women immediately scurried to and fro, packing and lading the bullocks; and in an incredibly short time the grove began to empty, until at last only a few of the dacoits were left with the man who carried the bandage over his forehead.

"Let some of the Lingites," said the latter, "lead the way to their mountain fort while others make a false trail -- the rest can carry the hakim!"

But most of the men who had remained behind were not in favour of the latter part of the leader's advice. It was altogether against the past policy of the band, and experience had taught them that dead men give no trouble. One counselled one thing, one another; but the leader remained adamant, having said his say.

Wrencroff closed his eyes and listened for all he was worth, trying to understand the drift of their conversation. He had no difficulty in learning that he himself was the cause of contention and that most of them were urging that he should be summarily dealt with and hidden away in the forest.

"Nay," cried the leader at last with impatience, "it shall not be so. The Swami sent word that the hakim was to be kept till he came. We know not his reasons or his purpose, but those who fail the Swami know what it means."

This argument seemed to break down all objections. At a signal two bamboo poles were brought and fixed to the hammock upon which Wrencroff was lying.

There was a moment's delay while two or three members of the Lingite tribe were leaving the grove to lay false trails in different directions; then, when these had disappeared, the rest of the party proceeded to cross the stream at a point where an almost invisible pathway led through an intricate maze of thorns and thickly clustering shrubs.

The men bearing the hammock were the last to take up their position in the Indian file; and, as they did so, an inspiration came to Wrencroff that made his thoughts work rapidly towards a slight chance of rescue. The sudden decampment of the dacoits was probably owing to the fact that his friend was following up the trail with assistance; but, granting that he might hit upon the grove, was it likely that he would be able to follow up the trail from there? To say the least of it, it would take time; and minutes, so far as any chance of escape was concerned, were precious. If possible he must try and leave some clue behind for his friend's guidance. His hands and feet were tied, but with the former he could still reach his waistcoat pocket in which he carried a small compass. As his bearers were about to cross the stream, he sat up suddenly with a jerk, making the men stagger so much as to leave very clear signs of their passage. In the confusion of the moment he dropped the little compass unseen through the net, and when the Lingite carriers passed on, the little instrument lay shining in the cool empty grove.

CHAPTER XVII. THE FEUD OF THE NAGITES.

MORE than a thousand feet above the Shivite shrine there lies a small plateau on a frowning peak.

On three sides the plateau is inaccessible, but on the fourth it may be reached by a small mountain path which winds in and out along the precipitous face of a deep and dangerous ravine.

Some two hundred feet below the plateau, at the point where the ravine takes an almost perpendicular descent, there is a flat, broad bed of quartzite and slaty rock where a spring collects into a deep pool before hurling itself down into the abyss below.

All the water which leaves this pool does not, however, go over the waterfall; with curious perversity a considerable stream turns away before reaching the edge, runs for some distance over the mountain footpath that leads up to the plateau, then flows off along the rocky bed of a cave hollowed out of the side of the peak.

The entrance to this cave is almost completely covered by one of those gigantic overhanging rocks called by the natives rishi-umbrellas, and at first sight that part of it which is exposed seems little more than an insignificant hollow caused by the denudation of the "Umbrella's" underlying bed of rocks.

On passing under the rishi-umbrella, however, one finds oneself not only in a cave of considerable size, but also in one of an unusual character. The light which filters through the great clefts at the sides of the rock is dim and uncertain but still sufficient to reveal the fact that the place is peopled with a crowd of monstrous figures. Grim sentinels, representing imaginary or mythical combinations of man and beast, stand out on all sides as if guarding the approach to some superior being; spears and arrows protrude from the ceiling and walls like a series of triumphal arches; while python-like bodies and masses of coils give uncanny shocks until closer inspection reveals alike the dust of ages and the primitive crudity of the sculptured representations.

The cave becomes narrower and darker as it proceeds, until a torch is required to light one's way along the narrow passage to which it contracts. This passage, after continuing some distance with a downward slope, suddenly makes a series of sharp turns, then opens out again into a large cave, and there before one stands the object of veneration -- a large bronze cobra, brightly painted, with its head erect and its hood expanded.

This ancient relic of the forest-dwellers is by no means at the end of the subterranean way. The cave goes on, apparently indefinitely, into the very heart of the hill; but less than thirty feet beyond the sacred fetish the floor of the cave disappears altogether; and through the clammy atmosphere there comes the soft lap, lap of water from the fathomless rock cistern that bars the further progress of the inquisitive.

About a century before the events already recorded, the plateau was inhabited by a strong and thriving gotram or community of forest-dwellers. They were said to be an off-shoot of the common tribes that overrun the Black Mountains, but for ages they had kept to themselves, and the only gotrams with which they intermarried were more than a hundred miles away.

In many ways they were far superior to the neighbouring gotrams of forest tribes and differed from them in physical appearance as well as in social and religious customs.

They were more powerfully built; their eyes were more piercing; they were braver and more straightforward, and while possessing many of the characteristics of southern tribes, held a standard of morality all their own and showed an independence unknown among the degenerate tribes. In religion they were purely totemistic; whereas the other tribes, though preserving much of their ancient fetishism, had, under Brahmin influence, adopted Hindu incarnations as their principal deities.

There was one custom in particular which was peculiar to these Nagite inhabitants of the plateau -- the form of their marriages. The man wishing to marry selected a bride, and, with the consent of the gotram, retired with her. On the following day a circular space was cleared, in the centre of which a bow and arrow were fixed; a feast was then prepared, and, to the sound of tom-toms and the throwing of rice, the bride and bridegroom were made to go round and round the symbolic circle. This done, the man was then asked if he were satisfied with his bride, and, receiving the expected answer, the headman ratified the marriage, and the bride was conducted to her newly-built beehive hut.

If, for any reason, the marriage remained unratified, the omission naturally involved great disgrace for the bride, and roused intense ill-feeling against the delinquent bridegroom. But the danger of such a calamity had seldom arisen in the history of the tribe, and at one time had hardly been taken into account even as a possibility. Unfortunately, however, it had occurred twice within the century, with fatal results for the gotram. For it was the cause of a deadly feud which brought years of cruel misfortune and desolation upon the Nagites. How the fatal omission occurred in the first instance was in this way:

The chief of the Nagite tribe had an only son -- a wild, wayward young fellow with a hankering after the plains and a taste for the pleasures of the village. As often as not he was away from the tribe indulging in the evil habits of the low-castes under whose influence he had fallen. On his return he would simply wander about with gloomy looks, refusing to take part either in their simple pleasures or in their daily struggle for existence. Murmurs of discontent amongst the tribe increased; the son was the hereditary successor to his father's office, and the Nagites were not pleased with the interest which he took in village ways or with the behaviour which he showed towards themselves. At last the headman considered it high time to move in the matter, and, marriage appearing to be the solution of the difficulty and the likeliest enticement for him to settle down, a council was held, the decision of which was that he should marry the daughter of the headman's younger brother.

Arrangements were made and, according to custom, the chief's son chose the bride which popular consent had assigned to him. On the morrow, however, after a fit of jealousy on the bride's part and an outburst of anger on his, he refused to take part in the ratification of the marriage. Persuasion and threats alike availed nothing: scorning the one and defying the other, he rose angrily from the hastily convened council, forswore his cousin and left the gotram for ever.

The renegade Nagite found his way to the Agraharam or priests' village, which lies fifteen miles away from the Shivite temple, and, there attaching himself to a community of Lingites, married the headman's daughter, whose existence had no doubt played an important part in the renunciation of his tribe and bride.

The Lingites were a curious mixture of the tribes that dwell in the forest and of the primitive nomads whose temporary dwellings hang round the skirts of the towns and villages. They lived largely by the chase and the produce of the forest, but at the same time were ever willing to act as village watchmen, guardians of the passes, guides, carriers, runners or spies. Thus it naturally happened that where their services were constantly required for these purposes, there their dwellings tended to become more permanent.

In religion they were, as their name suggests, followers of the great nature worship of the Shivites and Durgites, and, together with other peculiar customs of their own, were in the habit of dedicating most of their daughters to the goddess.

Through the marriage of their headman's daughter with the son of the Nagite chief, the Lingites in time set up a rival claim to the peak with its famous subterranean temple. When the old chief died they urged his son to press his claim; but the latter hated the place and its association and refused to have anything to do with it.

Twenty years later, however, an old cause of contention -- the collection of wax and honey and certain berries and roots which were to be found in abundance on the sides of the mountain -- gave birth to open hostilities, and his son, urged by his Lingite brethren, headed a raid upon the inhabitants of the peak.

During the fray the youth slipped on one of the crags and was dashed to pieces; but he left a son to inherit his hate. Till this child grew to manhood the feud was again laid to sleep. But it was never forgotten; it worked to a murderous fury in the minds of the Lingites with the increasing years; and from his infancy the young child was imbued with the utterly false idea that the Nagites possessed his inheritance.

The Brahmins in the Agraharam, though apparently unconnected with the affairs of either tribe, were the real promoters of this intertribal struggle. In one way or another they found means to feed the feud and to work it to a fury. The Lingites were under their influence and through them they hoped, eventually, to obtain a hold upon the ancient temple on the peak. It had long been a sore point with them that the Nagites remained indifferent to their hierarchical authority. The unique character of the Nagite temple had made it famous and they had often desired to make it another bait to the pilgrims; but the Nagites were as proud of their tribe and independence as the Brahmins were of their caste, and they would have neither social nor religious connection with the latter. Moreover, there were strange rumours that among the quartzite and mica on the hill precious stones had been found from time to time, and the hill-tribe had a shrewd idea, that, valueless as these were in their own eyes, yet they had a strange fascination for the insatiable priests in the temple below, and that once the latter succeeded in getting a plausible hold upon the mountain there would be little peace for themselves on the plateau above.

Thus the years rolled by and Linganna, the grandson of the renegade Nagite, grew to manhood. Urged by the Lingites, indirectly spurred and secretly encouraged by the Brahmins, and finally drawn on by his own evilly directed desires, he nursed his hopes for revenge, and laid his plans for possession with consummate skill.

Brawls and skirmishes between members of the two tribes had increased, and the forest was no longer safe for one or the other, though the Lingites seldom came off the better. The latter, however, were biding their time, for report had it that preparations were being made for the marriage of Naga the chief's son; and Linganna had arranged that a general assault should be made upon the Nagites during the ratification of the marriage, which would take place at the rising of the sun on the Hindu festival of Dusserah, which was also a festival of the Nagites. Moreover, the priests of the Agraharam had continually assured them that for all faithful followers of the goddess engaged in warlike occupations that was above all a propitious day, for it was the festival of Durga's victory over the demon.

So at sunrise on the morning of Dusserah the assault was made. The Nagites, intent on the marriage ceremony, were taken completely by surprise and many of the men were massacred before they could make any attempt at resistance. At the moment that the attack was made, Naga and his bride were on their way to the mystic circle; the bride was seized and dragged down by the Lingites, but in the confusion the bridegroom broke away, and, for some time, created terrible havoc with a great branch which was the only weapon he could lay hands on. At last he was wounded and his wife seeing him fall, broke from her captors and fled shrieking. But, as it turned out, he was not killed. A moment later he was on the sharp ridge behind the ravine, and from there he saw his newly-made bride throw herself into the great pool on the quartzite rock, and, with others, watched the tragedy work to its grim climax as she disappeared with the rain-swollen waters into the abyss below.

From that hour terrible hatred possessed the heart of Naga. Night and day he watched for a suitable opportunity of revenge. His one desire was to meet Linganna in single combat, overcome him and then mete out his punishment; later on, when he had collected his scattered tribe together, he would deal fitly with the rest of the Lingite brood. But Linganna was wary and kept himself from harm's reach by avoiding the forest; so, as the opportunity was long in coming, Naga took to creeping between the edge of the forest and the outskirts of the Agraharam.

Thus it happened that one evening towards dusk, as the Car Festival was in progress, the Lingites, who were helping to pull the Jagannath vehicle, recognised him watching from behind a tree, and, after a struggle, captured and threw him bound under the car. They would have preferred to keep him and deal with him in their own way, but religious fanaticism was roused, and the people demanded a victim for the car.

At that moment, however, Colonel Wrencroff chanced to be passing through the Agtaharam on his way to the hills. Hearing what was going on, he hurried to the scene. Fortunately, the great heavy car had settled into a rut, otherwise his appearance on the spot would have proved worse than useless. As it was, he was just in time to rescue Naga from under the very wheels of the car, with no small risk to himself and his company of servants.

From that day the hatred of both Brahmins and Lingites was turned against the Colonel; and that deadly feud, which had yet to run its full course, was set in motion.

The priests of the Agraharam put every conceivable obstacle in the way of the Colonel's schemes; they roused up the different forest tribes against him; they waylaid his carriers and runners; they frightened the coolies from doing the highly-paid labour; they caused the forest to be fired several times in the direction of his operations, and finally, with infernal ingenuity, they placed into the very midst of his household the spy and traitor Raymond.

This was before the suttee ceremony at the temple was prevented by Colonel Wrencroff's heroic action. At that time Naga was an important member of his household; not only the most useful, but also the most trusted, of his servants; and it was he who was at the Colonel's side when the latter reached the burning pyre, though on the way Naga himself had had to burst through a body of Lingites with Linganna, his hereditary foe, at their head. Encouraged by the favour and kindness of the Colonel, Naga collected together the scattered members of his tribe. He provided them with the necessities of life; found them work congenial to their habits and their hereditary instincts; married their girls and widows to the men of the distant gotrams with which they were intimately connected, and, while using the young men of the Nagite tribe in the Colonel's service, trained them assiduously for the struggle to come.

Apart from the great sorrow which they felt for the Colonel, the fall of the fort came as a great and irretrievable disaster to the plans of the Nagites. But they did not lose hope. Their strong passionate attachment to the peak and its grim shadows never wavered; and, during the difficult years that followed, Naga was still with them, labouring night and day to stimulate their efforts, and striving to drag a double secret from his enemies.

The Lingites themselves had never attempted to settle on the plateau. Even in the daytime they shuddered at the current superstitions connected with it. In groups of threes and fours, however, they continued to collect the honey and the much-desired roots which the mountain provided, and occasionally wouid gather toll from the pilgrims who found it their duty to visit the ghostly temple under the rishi-umbrella. Their search for the mountain products compelled them at times to remain all night on the peak, and for their convenience they had built themselves temporary huts on the plateau; but they never felt safe from the brooding revenge of the Nagites, and so they used these thatch dwellings as little as possible, and then only during the light fortnight of the moon. As years went by this fear became almost a superstition. There was something mysterious about the coming and going of the Nagites: they were always there, but seldom seen. When they did appear they were well armed and well fed. Strange rumours had got afloat about their increasing numbers, their new habits of living, their war-like preparations, their food supplies, and their fidelity to their leader. Of Naga himself they had seen nothing since he escaped from the terrible death which they had assigned to him some years before when he was captured attempting to force an entrance into the women's quarters of the high-priest's house. Nor could they learn anything about him. Yet he seemed to be always moving in their midst; for daylight often revealed some visible token intended to convey an unceasing vigilance and a terrible retribution to come. Moreover, these nocturnal visits created such consternation amongst the priests themselves that they would come and offer fabulous rewards for the proof of his death. But none could ever get near him, or rather the bolder ones, who went forth under a vow to the goddess to carry out the wishes of the priests, never returned to say how they had fared. Linganna himself had more than once set out to track the lion to his lair; but each time the ubiquitous Nagites had sent him back badly wounded and with only a remnant of the hopeful followers who had looked to share the promised reward.

CHAPTER XVIII. DACOITS.

AT the period with which our story is concerned, neither life nor property was safe for any length of time in the great expanse of undulating plains which extends for more than one hundred miles along the base of the Black Hills and stretches away from them as far as the eye can see, towards the setting sun.

Hitherto, the new order of things had hardly made itself felt. Elsewhere, especially in and around the cities, great and radical changes were taking place with marvellous rapidity: Imperial forms of government were sweeping away the evils arising from the uncertain and autocratic rule of irresponsible chiefs; political and social freedom was slowly but surely ousting the ancient feudal systems; caste influence, power of wealth, force of arms were no longer the arbitrary means of dispensing justice; new modes of thought and scientific knowledge were rapidly displacing customs and systems built upon superstition and mythology, while an increasing demand for more refined culture and more advanced civilisation was introducing into the country methods and contrivances hitherto undreamt of.

But here in this great isolated valley, bounded on the east by the sombrous mountains with their primitive forests, and on the west by rough ridges of arid red limestone, incredible ignorance of the most elementary principles of life and superstitions of the darkest form still prevailed. Even such news of the outer world as penetrated to the knowledge of the people was often distorted and exaggerated to serve the purpose of those who knew better, and for most it would have been almost impossible to explain whether their allegiance was due to Nabob, Priest, Company or Crown.

Much still remains to be desired in the way of improvement and suppression throughout this vast semi-civilised region; but -- thanks to the rigid policy of progressive schemes -- half a century has witnessed a wonderful evolution of peace and order out of chaotic conditions: large tanks and tracts of cultivated land are beginning to take the place of the scrub jungles which until recently lay between the forest and the villages; macadamised roads are now to be seen where formerly rough and almost impassable country tracks were the only means of traffic and transit; canals send out their tentacles in steadily increasing numbers; internecine quarrels and raids have diminished before stern repressive measures; judicial courts, administrative councils, and schools have sprung up in all directions, and, though the nests of criminal tribes are far from being completely eradicated, yet prosperity, order and justice are undeniably supplanting the lawlessness, turbulence and flagrant oppression that marked the greater part of the nineteenth century.

Wrencroff, as we have seen, had fallen into the hands of one of those organised gangs of robbers, called dacoits, to whose marauding exploits the wild condition of the country and the semi-barbarous habits of the inhabitants of the scattered villages were peculiarly adapted. Even to-day, after years of steady progress and improved organisation, it still remains one of the most backward and criminal areas of the South, and one that especially taxes the ingenuity of the Police Department.

The failure to deal effectively with the campaigns of criminal tribes and dacoit bands in those districts infested by them, has seldom if ever been due to a lack of zeal on the part of those responsible for their suppression. Nor, as is often pointed out, has it been due altogether to the methods employed by them for the capture of the leaders of the lawless gangs, but rather to the indifference of those who ought to be most concerned in their extermination, and also to the means of sanctuary sometimes afforded to them by the inhabitants of those villages terrorised by them.

This remarkable attitude of apparent acquiescence in the loss of life and property on the part of those who could materially assist in the capture of these organised bands of robbers is sometimes owing to prior criminal association with the outlaws, but, generally speaking, it is more frequently due to a nervous apprehension of retaliation on the part of the criminals and their associates before their final capture and complete extermination can be effected.

The dacoits into whose hands Wrencroff had fallen had decided to take refuge with their captive on the fortified plateau of the peak. More than one consideration had led them to adopt this expedient, but beyond all others was the knowledge that their old haunts were no longer safe. For years they had been reaping with impunity the rich harvests of their unnatural deeds and their secret terrorism; but lately their existence in the valley had become very precarious on account of the zealous efforts of the police.

CHAPTER XIX. THE DACOIT CHIEF.

SLOWLY, almost painfully, did the strange band pursue its way up the zigzag path that led to the plateau above -- sometimes clinging to the edge of the precipitous ravine, at other times moving away from it towards the right where the bare sloping surface of the hill was scarped by an ugly chasm.

About three o'clock the party reached the plateau, the entrance of which still retained remnants of the mud wall and palisade that had once guarded it.

Two rows of grass huts, separated by a narrow lane, occupied the centre of the plateau; but, from their appearance and from the nature of the wild growth about them, it was evident that they were seldom used for habitation, and then only temporarily. Trees and shrubs and thorns grew in disordered profusion over the site of the once-thriving Nagite gotram.

After entering the broken palisade, two or three dacoits came and took charge of Wrencroff and then conducted him towards the huts. Some of those who had arrived first on the plateau had thrown themselves down under the trees and gone to sleep; others had settled down in the space between the two rows of huts and were already preparing their hookahs or sharing the contents of their flasks. The men in charge of Wrencroff led him to one of the larger huts in the centre of the row, and, after securing the coarsely-strung bamboos over the entrance, left him without the least hint as to why they had brought him there, or what they intended to do with him.

From the start, the general attitude towards him had been one of sullen silence, as though they resented his presence without being able to avoid it, and neither dacoit nor Lingite had deigned to answer the few questions which he had put to them.

The hut in which he was held a prisoner was by no means strong, being little more than thatch and thorns strung together with hempen cords, but armed men surrounded the place, and not only his hands, but his arms also were tightly bound with thongs.

Time passed. How, he could hardly have explained, excepting that each minute was like the interval between the strokes of a death-bell, each one bringing with it a new and more terrible thought, but ending with a still firmer resolution to show no sign of fear or cowardice to the rough band of men laughing and joking outside. Suddenly the coarse laughter died away and the men's .voices ceased. There was a scramble as if they were rising hastily to their feet. Then came the whispered words -- the Swami! the Maha-Praboo!

The new arrival was evidently the one whose word had saved him from being summarily dealt with at the time of the sudden flight from the grove. His position or personality was such as to keep even these rough, fearless dacoits under the influence of a profound respect, and, whoever he was, Wrencroff felt convinced that it would be this man's decree that would decide his fate. So he got up from his seat and crossed over to the little door to try to get a glimpse of him through the open chinks. The dacoits had taken up their position on each side of the lane, and were making sweeping salaams to a man of great size and most ferocious aspect as he passed between them, accompanied by the fair-skinned dacoit who had seemed hitherto to be their leader.

The new-comer was dressed, after the Turkish style, in silk vest, braided coat, peg-top pantaloons, and a large green turban. Around his waist was twisted a silken shawl into which was stuck a long jewelled poniard, and by his side clinked a great scimitar. His beard was long, deep black and curling in the orthodox fashion, and his eyes -- ! They were so utterly inhuman that they shattered the last remnant of hope which had lingered in WrencrofFs mind. For some minutes Wrencroff listened with strained hearing to the sounds of enthusiastic welcome which was being shown towards this strange-looking individual; then, amidst a sudden silence, he heard a raucous voice cry shrilly:

"Bring him here at once!"

A wild shout of excitement rent the air in answer to the command, and he knew that the time had come to nerve himself to meet an ordeal that would most likely test all his powers of endurance. In their zeal to carry out the significant order, a number of dacoits literally tore off the door of the hut and dragged him into the presence of the new-comer, who was now seated on a throne of shawls and turbans, which had been arranged by the dacoits on a rough stone platform under some trees at the end of the line of huts.

"Oh, so thou art the foreign devil!" he said sneeringly, as Wrencroff was pushed unceremoniously in front of him. "What brought thee to this country?"

And as Wrencroff hesitated, not knowing what sort of conciliatory reply to make, he raised his scabbard threateningly.

The next moment the chief was on his feet, gazing into Wrencroff's face with a piercing look.

"Ah!" he at last breathed. Then his reptilian eyes moved from his victim's face, and a tremor passed over him as if he were shaking himself free of a strange trance.

At last he turned towards the brutal faces looking up at him in surprise.

"Friends," he said slowly, "I have an ancient vow which I have long feared would never be fulfilled. But the goddess is sometimes gracious to her servants, and I think the opportunity has come at last. Prepare her image under the tree. Perchance Ida and her darlings will come to dance and make us merry while the goddess is being propitiated; for we shall dance her to sleep to-night with a man in her lap and a warm fire between her feet. Meanwhile, take this son of a dog back to the hut, and leave him there, for I have a mind to talk with him alone and in private."

CHAPTER XX. A GLIMPSE OVER THE EDGE OF THE EARTH.

THEY were alone at last in the dim light of the beehive hut, facing each other.

The eyes of the dacoit were lit with an unholy joy as he gazed into the white drawn face of his victim.

"The ways of Durga are sometimes very strange, but she can be very gracious to her faithful servants. What is they name, son of a dog?" he asked at last in a slow, contemptuous voice.

"WrencrofF," answered Guy, thinking that nothing was to be gained by withholding the information.

"Ah! I thought so. I have a faithful memory for the enemies of our goddess. Dost know that thou art not the first white thief who has prowled about these forests with that name -- and that face?"

"I am aware of the fact," replied Wrencroff, beginning to see the drift of the dacoit's questions. "But do not admit that he to whom thou referrest was ever that which thou hast named him."

"Let that pass for the moment," angrily interrupted the other. "What connection is there between you -- art thou his son?"

"Nay; naught more than a distant cousin."

"Oh, oh!" ejaculated the other in a tone of disappointment. "I wouldst thou hadst been his son in order that the torture of his cursed spirit might be increased an hundredfold; but still," he continued, with a look of terrible malignity, "it is something that thou art of the same blood. For I had begun to fear lest my vow should remain unfulfilled, and I myself become a wanderer in the birth to come, perhaps, even as a pariah; but now I shall fulfil it through thee."

"And thy vow?" demanded Wrencroff, unable to repress the sneer that came to his lips, in spite of the terrible answer which he foresaw.

"That I should offer to the goddess the blood of the man who had defiled her worship. For, see!

"Ah! now thou understandest," he continued in a mocking voice; for Wrencroff had staggered back in surprise and disgust, as the dacoit chief pulled off his black whiskers and great turban, and thus revealed the shaven head and glittering eyes of Ramayya, the priest's younger brother.

"Now thou knowest why I hate thee as much as thy friend, the white ruler, who would steal the daughter of the dedicated widow whom thy kinsman took by force from our midst."

'Tis true," answered Wrencroff. "I have heard something of my kinsman's story; but I fail to see how it concerns me in so vital a manner as thou wouldst have me understand. It is true that he took away one of your caste women and married her; but it was his doing, not mine. Moreover, seeing that he rescued her from a cruel death, was there no justice in what he did?"

"Cruel death! -- chee, chee! What cruelty could there be in giving her back to the goddess who gave her life? Bah! thy words are the foolish wisdom of the white foreigner beating upon wind that blows it away. Who can feel pain when the goddess calls? 'Tis but an illusion of the ignorant and unbeliever which disappears like the lightning. But pollution of caste and religion! -- who can say how many generations and incarnations will be needed to remove that? Thy kinsman despoiled the glory of our ancient temple; and I -- because I desired the woman he took, and because I was the next high-priest in succession of the goddess he outraged -- I swore to avenge our wrong and offer his blood upon her altars. But, though he was for a long time in the hollow of my hand waiting to be crushed, yet in the end he escaped my vengeance.

"My oath, however, by the grace of the goddess, had been wisely sworn. I could have accomplished my vow through his child, and I watched for an opportunity to do so. But my brother, the priest, placed me under the terrible spells of the yogi who had promised him strange things through the child of the white warrior. Ida, the high-priestess of the temple, had also prophesied by her pyromancy that I should never succeed to the temple if the child died before the time appointed by the sages. So I let her be. But as the years rolled by I found that she was more beautiful than her mother, and far more desirable. And now, when I would have saved her for a better fate than that pointed out by the sages, ye have come to pollute us as your kinsman did before. But Ramayya the priest will yet conquer and crush you all. Nakshatram shall come to me or meet the fate appointed by the sages; whichever way it matters not -- the foreign Collector will eat his own heart out in misery; as for thee, who art of the cursed blood and who wouldst have helped the Collector to entangle the cycle of our sacred destinies, thou shalt go hence on the lap of the goddess to increase the torments of thy kinsman's spirit by telling him of Ramayya's victory. And Ida, Ida the priestess whose spirit is akin to mine, shall read my destiny in thy sacrificial fire, and tell me whether the goddess is appeased and whether I shall be able to overcome the incantations of the high-priest, my brother, and take from him both Nakshatram and the high-priesthood of the temple."

After replacing the set of false whiskers and the huge turban, the unnatural priest had left Wrencroff to ponder over the terrible nature of the vengeance which his devilish imagination was striving to consummate. But the dreadful suggestions had hardly had time to begin the mental torture which the wicked ingenuity of the priest had devised for his victim, when Wren-croff's gloomy train of reflections was interrupted by the swish of a knife working rapidly through the thatch and thorns which formed the back wall of the hut. The secret manner in which the worker seemed to be accomplishing his object roused the first spark of hope that had warmed his heart since they had left the cool forest glade in the morning.

There was, however, the possibility that some of the dacoits with whom he had come into conflict the evening before might not have fallen in with the views of their chief and were now seeking an opportunity to give vent to their brutal feelings in their own way. And so, during the few minutes that slipped by while the hole increased to a size large enough for a man to creep through, Wrencoff s suspense became so intense that he could hear his own heart beating till the place seemed to resound with quick hard thuds; for to him it meant the last desperate chance of life and liberty -- or at least death in a far less terrible form than that which was now impending. At last his doubts were set at rest; for his bonds were cut, and a fine muscular young giant of about twenty years of age stood before him with the flush of success and modesty mantling his dusky complexion as Wrencoff hurriedly expressed his deep sense of obligation in words which, though guarded to a whisper, could not fail to convey his lasting gratitude.

"Has Sahib got knife?" the youth at last inquired in lisping English.

"No; but I have this!" replied Wrencoff, showing his revolver.

"Good!" answered the other, his eyes lighting up with pleasure. "It will be very good; but knife make no noise."

"You have not told me yet who you are."

"I am Chirtha of the Nagite tribe. Naga, the headman, tell me never to leave the footsteps of the Sahib. So I am always near, though the Lingites keeping good eyes in every corner. But they are not real forest-tribe -- they are low-caste from villages -- and they cannot see even though the Nagites never leave their shadow. I willing to wait till darkness come to help Sahib escape; but bad words come to Chirtha's ears, and it seemed better going now. There will be running and risk, but what matter? It is sometimes easier dying one way than other, and these people always giving bad death. Is Sahib feeling quite ready?"

"Yes; and I shall certainly never die a victim of their horrible goddess. But tell me first what I am to do?"

"Chirtha will creep first and see if way clear. If no one near, we will move in long grass; but if one see, then we run for mountain path. Near the pool of water there is Nagite temple which we will go in. After that it will be easy for Chirtha to find way."

At one point in their perilous descent the peculiarity of the view was so sudden and unexpected that Wrencroff laboured under the delusion that he had come to the edge of the world and was peeping over it. He was not a good mountain-climber, and the view made him light-headed; but he knew that their boats were irrevocably burnt behind them, and, come what might, they must go forward.

"You are a brave man, Chirtha. And I shall never forget your help and kindness, if we manage to get safely out of this difficulty."

"It is good of Sahib to say so," answered the youth, his face lighting up with pleasure. "But the Nagite Chief gave order and I only obey. Every Nagite die gladly to help Chief."

"I only hope that I may find a suitable occasion later on to show my gratitude. However, Chirtha, let's get this beastly business over or I shall lose my nerve."

The attention of the Nagite was riveted on something that was taking place on the other side of the stream.

"Sahib, look . . . look ... the Nagite Chief!" he cried excitedly, as he pointed to the mountain path on the other side of the gully.

Wrencroff lifted his weary eyes and followed the direction of Chirtha's finger. That which he saw infused new life into his exhausted frame. Away down on the zigzag path was a moving mass of dark bodies armed with glittering spears, and marching at their head was his friend Duncan, accompanied by the guide who had led him to the temple and was now called by Chirtha the "Chief of the Nagite tribe."

They had seen Chirtha and were answering his signals.

"Let us go, Sahib!" said the Nagite exultantly.

So Wrencroff, gladdened by the sight of his friend's rally, braced himself for the last effort.

CHAPTER XXI. A LULL IN THE STORM.

IT was morning -- the morning after the incidents recorded in the last chapter. The sun was shining brightly at an angle that warned those who were interested in such insignificant details as the lesser divisions of time that it was near eight o'clock. Bullock-bells chimed and tinkled to the accompaniment of excited voices and merry laughter. The tope around the Shivite temple was steadily filling with a blaze of bright colours. Children romped everywhere; tired women sang soft lullabies to their peevish infants; slim girls, just passing into womanhood, looked out of eyes that dilated with strange anticipations; men laughed, joked, smoked, wrestled or busied themselves in setting up temporary covers of bamboo poles and palm leaves.

White and stately stood the Collector's tents amidst the group of palmyras that dotted the centre of the huge glade -- now and then causing a little awe in the minds of the venturesome youths, but in no way interfering with the legitimate pleasure and the increasing festivities of the visitors to the sacred resting-place of the ancient rishis.

Wrencroff had slept a deep dreamless sleep since Duncan had dosed him with brandy the evening before. His long, unbroken rest had greatly refreshed him, though it had left him with an unusual pallor over his countenance and a jaded appearance as a souvenir of his terrible experiences. He had just finished relating the latter to Duncan, who, though he had already received a general idea of his friend's adventures from Chirtha the guide, was greatly surprised at some of the revelations which Wrencroff was able to make. His astonishment was indeed great on learning the identity of the dacoit chief and on hearing the description of the personal characteristics of his lieutenant, who was, he explained, a Rajput by caste.

"By Jove!" he murmured, "this is a bit of good luck. You have hit upon two men who have been badly wanted for some time. It is news indeed to hear that that rogue of a priest is the real chief. That is a trump card for us in more ways than one. I'll write to Lloyd at once and tell him to bring his men up here as quickly as possible. He's pitched near the Agraharam and is hunting this gang with a few picked men. If everything goes well he can be here before dark."

"You have not told me yet," said Wrencroff, "how you came to be on the mountain path."

"That's true," answered the other; "but we'd better have some breakfast first. You must be pretty well starving. I'll tell you as we go along," and as he spoke he rang the call-bell.

"What about breakfast, boy?" he asked when the butler made his appearance.

"Coming, sir!"

"But, hang it, boy, you told me that a quarter of an hour ago."

"Yes, sir. It done come then . . ."

"But where is it?" asked the Collector with increasing irritability.

"Coming, sir -- now! But that chokra boy no more any good. He demned funny servant, spilling master's eggs all over, and never learning his business," replied the major-domo in a tone of disgust.

"Well, then, teach him better or get another, but go and bring breakfast now! Doctor Sahib very hungry."

Fortunately, however, for everybody concerned, the unlucky chokra appeared at that moment with the breakfast things, and Wrencroff was soon on the way to satisfy his hunger.

And while he ate and drank Duncan related how Naga the Chief had rallied his tribe, and how they had tracked the dacoit band first to the grove and then to the mountain peak.

"But where is his tribe now?" asked Wrencroff in surprise.

"Goodness only knows! They seem to have disappeared in the night as mysteriously as they came together the night before. But they can't be far away, for he holds them ready to come to our assistance in case we should need their help to-night."

"But who is this jungle-walla?" inquired Wrencroff.

"Oh! I have very little doubt about that. He must be the hillman referred to by Nakshatram -- 

"The Servant of the Dead' as he called himself, or in other words, Naga, the Colonel's servant, who had charge of that last letter which was sent to your pater. That would, of course, account for his peculiar attachment to yourself."

CHAPTER XXII. SIDE-LIGHTS.

BRIGHT, joyous and expectant were the crowds that streamed incessantly into the temple grove. Superstitions had not yet had time to canker their exuberant spirits, and religion, in its true sense, had no place in their hearts or minds. The aim of one and all was centred on the pleasures of a fete or on the unrestrained licence of a novel tamash.

If the gods spake it was for the priests to read the oracle by their wisdom, and to arrange the ritual handed down by tradition from their ancestors the demi-gods; but as for the people themselves they were unlearned and understood neither the one nor the other.

They had come to enjoy; and the more hardened would probably go away temporarily satiated by the strange freaks and fancies of their goddess as interpreted by the priests; whereas the more tender in years, and those whose souls moved naturally towards the good and pure, would return to their homesteads feeling contaminated, and, perhaps, just a little frightened, by all they had seen and done -- in the name of a god.

But at present the systemised wickedness underlying the Tantric sophistry was hidden away under sanctimonious practices till nightfall; passions were still nascent; dormant fanaticism had yet to be evoked by methods ever effective amongst superstitious crowds dominated by an unscrupulous priesthood; insidious temptations had not yet been set to trap the weak and the unwary -- all these were to come later, but for the moment simple glee and innocent mirth appeared to inspire the gaily-dressed crowd of pilgrims.

Fresh batches appeared every minute: some on foot, some in bullock-carts decorated with leaves and flowers, some on small pack-ponies richly caparisoned or with legs gaudily painted green and yellow.

To the inexperienced onlooker it was a wonderful spectacle of crowded activity and brilliant lustre: women hurrying to and fro with their great brass pots filled with water from the sacred streams or beginning to burnish the curry pots and cooking vessels with a view to the evening meal; men performing their semi-religious ablutions or helping to clear a convenient camping ground for their families; drivers preparing grain and fodder for their cattle or leading them away to graze; attendants rushing about seeking for twigs and dried branches for the fires; priests, ascetics and mendicants arranging their paraphernalia in convenient spots from which they might catch the attention of the credulous and inquisitive; musicians strumming their vinas or tapping their drums and cymbals to gain an audience; quacks, idol-sellers, fruit vendors, dealers in scents and powders setting out their wares under the trees and raising insistent cries to draw the notice of the negligent -- and all this amidst a blaze of red, white, purple and yellow, which were the favourite colours worn by the pleasure-seeking bands of Shivites.

It would not be correct, nor would it be just, to leave the impression that this vast concourse was solely composed of the followers of the Vamacharin sect, otherwise known as the left-hand worshippers of the goddess Durga. Tantrika ritual in its last and worst development never was brought into general practice amongst the masses. It was never, in reality, much more than the unnatural outburst of the mad few. Its doctrines led to moral, physical and social suicide, and those who were depraved enough to indulge in it had strong motives for hiding its terrible ravages in the darkest secrecy. But though the mass of the people were never initiated into its central rites, yet, under its insidious influence, Hindu sculpture, philosophy and morals sank to their lowest level.

As the morning advanced the excitement increased, the dresses became more brilliant, and the whole grove grew resplendent with the glitter of jewels and rich brocades. Silks of the rarest kind -- worth at least a hundred rupees a yard, and nine yards at that to a cloth -- and linen of the finest texture from the hand-looms of purdahed captives, were gradually brought out and exchanged for the less expensive travelling cloths which had been soiled on the way, nearly all being covered with marvellous patterns, and interwoven with gold and silver strands according to the wealth of the wearers.

The progress of the festival and the rising enthusiasm of the people were marked, as they ever are, by a commensurate volume of musical sounds: the beating of drums, the blowing of strange horns and shrill pipes, and the twanging of stringed instruments swelled slowly to that extraordinary combination of notes which Eastern ears alone can recognise as a grand symphonic arrangement.

Bards, pujaris, and priests seized the opportunity to practise their arts on the gullibility of the pilgrims whenever a family or a group seemed inclined to listen. The bards erected miniature stages, and, by means of puppets, played one of the love episodes or heroic adventures of the god and goddess; the pujaris brought lighted thuribles and a small swing or cradle in which the goddess reclined in the form of Mahavidya, the source of knowledge, or as Matrt, the chief of divine mothers, or as Yogini, the goddess of magical powers; and the would-be recipients of favours were expected to present fruits, flowers, lights or jewels to her. As for the priests they interested their patrons by reading to them sections of the Kali-puranas, the Kaulopanishad and the hand-manuals of Durga-puja.

There were other touches to this vivid picture of popular Hinduism, some pitiable, some revolting, some despicable, each according to the degree of misfortune, hypocrisy or roguery that appeared to be underlying it. Devotees -- deformed and disfigured -- crawled in and out amidst the merry-making groups; destitute beggars cringed and cried in a woeful manner; Sannyasis, in weird contrast to the gay, restless throngs, sat in self-mortification -- speechless and motionless -- as if dead to sight and sound; men stained with sin, women with blighted lives, youths stricken with disease sought pathetically for new means to propitiate the unseen powers.

Mysticism, newly-gained sanctity, unreasonable emotionalism, superstition and downright iniquity worked together to produce the desired fanaticism.

Bells tinkled; temple panderers proclaimed the virtue of the offerings to be made during the Durgite worship at night; mystics worked themselves up into ecstasies and trances; secret participators in the temple profits worked on the feelings of the people; priests began to practise sorceries and all forms of occult science -- so that even before it was noon the credulous crowds of pilgrims were in a mood to see and to hear anything that priestcraft might invent.

"You devil! -- you daughter of a pig! -- you bad woman! -- you have killed my son with your wicked wishes and your witcheries," shrieked an old woman in a frenzy, as she gave violent tugs at the dishevelled hair of a slim young girl of thirteen to fourteen years of age. "You always hated me and tried to wean his love away from me, and now you have made me childless. You wicked, disobedient daughter-in-law! May Durga catch you and eat you up!" And the old termagant, having vented her spite and her strength upon the newly-made child-widow, flung herself on the ground and dug her bird-like claws into the earth in the madness of her grief. And the poor child sat by in a huddle of torn rags and bleeding limbs shuddering convulsively with terror, pain and sorrow. But her misery was by no means at an end. Other females of her caste considered it necessary to appease the spirit of the dead man by spitting at her, scratching her or throwing biting sarcasms at her helplessness. She was a beautiful girl: tall, slender, and exceedingly fair for a southerner; her features were small and regular, and her eyes large and gentle, and, at this moment, pathetically pleading, like those of a doe in doubt.

Standing near by, and watching this household tragedy with a curious look, was a tall, magnificent woman gorgeously dressed. A woman seldom forgotten once seen, and always present at any important festivity; for it was Ida, the chief of the temple dasis. Her dark eyes glittered strangely as she noted the unusual beauty of the young widow.

"What is it, mother?" she asked as the old woman lay in a passive heap on the ground.

"Uyyo -- uyyo!" she wailed. "My son is dead and it is all owing to that wild-cat there!"

"That is bad, indeed; but come, mother, tell me how it happened?"

"We were coming to the temple -- they were in one bandy, we were in another. About dawn we came to a nullah with a stream in it. The banks were very steep for the bandies. Their bandy was going first. When we got to the nullah we found their bandy overturned near the stream; and when we looked my son was found under the wheel. We lifted him up but he was dead. And now who will protect me? We were in debt, and the money-lenders will now take all we had. I shall have no home and no one to help me. It is all her evil doing. Even when he was alive she used to make his anger fall on me out of jealousy. I will now tear her cheeks!"

"Nay; nay, mother! That is not wise. Why mar her beauty when it will make thee rich?"

"Make me rich!" gasped the old woman in surprise.

"Aye; come with me and I will show thee a way -- pleasing to the goddess." And the temple dasi led the wretched old mother-in-law aside to a more secluded spot.

CHAPTER XXIII. TRAPPED AND TAKEN.

Two hundred yards from the temple wall, in~a place where the trees hung together in an almost impenetrable tangle, the ground rose to a steep bank, then sloped down into the mysterious hollow which, the reader may remember, was referred to in an earlier part of this story. It was evidently an artificial excavation, and had probably been scooped out by Hindu pioneers in their search for a spring, or it may have been made after the building of the temple with some deeper purpose in view. Whatever may have been the original motive that brought it into existence, time had endowed it with a sinister appearance and an evil name. Few, indeed, were the priests or pilgrims who paid the place a personal visit; fewer still were those who ventured to descend into its dismal gloom in the face of the fatal curses of its vindictive gnomes.

Down each side of the hollow a narrow, slippery stairway of stone led to the pool at the bottom. After the manner of wayside wells, a small stone recess had been built into the wall midway down each set of stone steps. Both steps and recesses had long been overgrown with weeds and mosses, while two of the recesses had practically lost all resemblance to their original shape owing to the collapse of the granite flags which had formed their roofs; and, in many places, the stone steps had disappeared altogether, either into the water below or under the accumulated heaps of decayed vegetation. The little recess on the same side as the temple wall was in good repair, so was the one on the opposite side of the hollow; but closer inspection would have revealed the fact that whereas the former was by no means abandoned either as an oratory or a refectory, the latter was little if ever used, and was decidedly repellent, hidden as it was behind a slimy mass of fungoid plants and creepers.

It was the need of still further philosophical reflection which led the Sannyasi to seek the solitude of the gloomy hollow; it was inspiration -- whether divine or devilish remains to be seen -- which guided him, contrary to habit, to search for still deeper seclusion in the slimy alcove on the side of the hollow farthest from the temple wall.

The Sannyasi was a great fatalist, and ever since he had witnessed the unexpected meeting between Naga and Nakshatram, his mind had been solely occupied with the strange twists and turns which a man's course might take on the way to his final fortune. As a religious tenet the Sannyasi's fatalism was not strictly orthodox, for he did not believe in the existence of either gods or demons; nor was it the philosophical conception of the irresistible sum of the laws of the universe. He laboured under the impression that he was destined to become incalculably rich. He had been bred on the idea, for the astrologer who drew up his horoscope had foretold it; he had himself foreseen it in a succession of dreams; his various tests had proved it; Ida had read it in her fires; the temple mantra-sastri had found it amongst the jumble of his symbolical diagrams. How the Sannyasi harmonized his belief in these extraordinary revelations with his denial of all forms of spirits, good or bad, only he himself could explain to the full satisfaction of those who might differ from him. Inconsistent, however, as his theory and his practice might seem, the combination of these two contradictory principles is frequently found amongst his modernised brethren.

There are two kinds of sannyasis: one is a genuine, devout ascetic or anchorite, whose one idea is to renounce the world, and to seclude himself from all temptation to indulge in physical pleasures; the other -- and commoner example -- is a religious sham who seeks through public penance the means of greater indulgences. The temple Sannyasi belonged to the latter order. He looked forward to the time when he would take himself and his ill-gotten riches to some desirable spot where he could spend the last twenty or thirty years of his life in supreme bliss.

But he was obsessed with the craving to increase the tremendous hoard which he had already made by his hypocritical practices. If there was a matter at all on which his mental equilibrium was not quite perfect it was this monomaniacal desire for increased wealth.

There had been a time when riches untold had lain within his grasp; but he had stupidly let them slip through his fingers, and it was since then that he had adopted the garb of a sannyasi, or rather, that he had dropped the scanty garments of a Brahmin. For years he had abandoned hopes of ever hearing again anything of that which he had permitted to go by, and then, by a simple turn of the wheel of fate, he had seen a movement and heard a sound which had brought back the agony of his loss, but at the same moment revived his dead hopes. For the expressive ejaculation which had escaped the "Servant of the Dead," and the proud, fearless way in which he had thrown back his head as he looked around for his enemies, were traits peculiar to one whom he had long thought of as dead; and the very fact that he was not so was another proof that fate still held to its original decree, and purposed to bring back into his power the principal possessor -- if not the only possessor -- of the secret connected with the hiding-place of the treasure which was to realise all his dreams and fulfil his destiny.

Such was the nature of the Sannyasi's meditations. And, as he sat in his gruesome den, calculating curious probabilities and eliminating unlikely possibilities, fate took a more freakish turn than ever, and, though it upset his calculations, it left him with the helm in his hands, and a straight course to his destiny. A gurgle of satisfaction rolled softly along the throat of the Sannyasi, but was not permitted to go farther, for there, on the opposite side of the hollow, a dark form was moving softly and silently down the steps towards the little recess in the wall -- and the form was that of the man known as Naga the Hillman, and Chief of the Nagite tribe.

When he reached the little stone chamber he hesitated. Terrible memories crowded back one on top of the other till his mind whirled with the mere recollection of infernal deeds. He shuddered in spite of a fierce restraint over his feelings, and great beads of perspiration stood out all over his body. Intrepid and daring as his spirit had ever proved itself to be, his heart quailed before the task which he had set himself, and only the utmost necessity had induced him to enter a place so loathsome to him that he felt his old scars must presently reopen and shed tears of blood in protest. But if need be, a man must; and Naga had come to the end of all his resources. Experiences indescribable, by the side of which death had dwindled to a trifle, had overtaken him in the place whither he must now go; and these he must risk again, perhaps worse, if he would bring help to the idol of his passionate affection. He hesitated involuntarily at the remembrance of broken and tortured years gone by; but, nevertheless, he was determined to risk them all over again, not once, but as often as Nakshatram should need succour. He had tried every possible means of gaining an entrance into the temple, and had failed. Whichever way he approached the walls either priest, spy, Lingite or dacoit seemed to be on the alert. Even his tribesmen had been unable to come to his assistance. To avoid suspicion, and to give himself a better chance, he had been compelled to keep them at a distance; and now, driven to desperation, and unknown to anyone but himself, he had determined to try a way known to none but the principal characters of the temple.

For an hour he had watched patiently from a cover above the hollow. Laughter, shouts, and shrill sounds of musical instruments told of the rising enthusiasm and excitement in the tope on the other side of the temple. But neither voice nor step had approached his place of concealment; the only sounds in the near neighbourhood were the cluck of a jungle-fowl, the play of some fan-throated lizards amongst the fallen leaves, and the whispering of the light breeze as it moved through the trees; no sign of human life; no suspicion of the silent Sannyasi watching with bloodshot eyes from behind his screen of creepers. With a last sweeping glance that tried to pierce every possible point of danger, the hillman turned, and, with a sound like an invocation, took the first step in his last desperate chance to rescue Nakshatram from the toils of the false-hearted Shivite priests.

A large, polished marble slab formed the back wall of the little chamber. With some difficulty Naga at last succeeded in extracting two huge iron bolts which kept it upright in its place. He then put his hands into two niches on the edge of the slab, and struggled with all his strength to move it along after the manner of a sliding panel. But pull or push as he might, it resisted all his efforts till he was nearly driven to despair with the thought that it might be jammed or fastened in some manner unknown to him. For a few moments he rested, breathing hard and maddened by the want of a new plan of action. He did not know that Duncan had sent for the assistance of the police. Even had he known, the knowledge would probably have brought him little comfort. For he had all his Nagite warriors raging with a long pent up desire for revenge, and waiting for a suitable moment to swoop down upon the priests and their satellites. But he did not dare to call them yet. A threat, breathed into his ears years ago, had often restrained him from seeking the help he desired, and still made him tremble for Nakshatram's life. An organised search for her, or an official attack upon the false harem where she had been held a captive, would have involved her death long ago. From the beginning this game of life and death had been one of fiendish subtlety versus all the craft and cunning that parental love could develop for the safety of its child, and so the game would have to be played to the end -- or, at least, till Nakshatram was safe, or dead. With one fierce, frantic exertion he dug his fingers into the niches and struggled with the marble slab, determined to seek elsewhere for an entrance if his efforts proved useless. But it answered with a jerk, and then moved slowly and heavily along the groove in which it was fixed, revealing, as it did so, a set of stone steps descending into the poisonous, dank darkness below.

Naga placed the iron bolts upon a stone shelf in the wall, stepped through the grimy opening, drew the slab back till it left only a narrow slit through which a faint streak of light glimmered, then cautiously began his blind journey down the invisible steps. The farther he proceeded the more difficult and the more horrible it became.

At last he arrived at the foot of a second set of steps, which he ascended with some difficulty. From the top of the steps he proceeded along a narrow passage, feeling his way along the rough wall till he came to what appeared to be a circular hole. Into this aperture he entered on his hands and knees, and crawled along the ground for about ten yards, at which point he stood erect, and looked around with an irresistible shudder. He was in a dimly lighted vault, with massive granite pillars, filthy with the grime of ages.

Without delay he moved excitedly to the far end of the grim crypt, working his way round heaps of broken pedestals, and fragments of idols that had formerly portrayed the dissolute gestures of gods and goddesses. With trembling hands he fumbled in the dim light along the dusty, cobwebbed wall. At last he succeeded in finding what he sought -- a combined lever and fulcrum attached to a chain. All his hopes hung on the next move. With heart thumping and head throbbing he pulled with the strength and viciousness of a man on the verge of madness. As he tugged and heaved, the heavy wall seemed to give ever so little, and then slowly swing inward towards him. As slight as the movement was it gave him joy and steadied his mind, for it seemed to promise final success to his plans. Before attempting to proceed with his work, however, he glanced through the opening which he had already made -- and gasped! He was looking into the garbhaliam or holy place beneath the central pagoda, and through that into the temple court where the sacred pool lay shimmering in the sunlight; and the gap through which he was gazing had been caused by the removal of that part of the wall to which the Buddha-like representation of the god Shiva was attached. But the sight which made him gasp was the figure of the Sannyasi sitting at the entrance of the garbhaliam, wrapped as it were in deep meditation.

Had he seen the idol move or not? That was the terrible question which rose in Naga's mind. Even if he had not, he would soon notice the gap already made. It was impossible to close the opening without attracting his attention by the noise; it was apparently impossible to open it wide enough to let himself out in time to prevent the ascetic from making known his presence in the most sacred part of the temple. Long before he could reach the Sannyasi, the latter could warn his brother Shivites, and he would be caught like a rat in a trap.

The ascetic sat motionless, with his eyes fixed upon the opening as if he did not see it; but there was an ironical expression upon his face, like that of the devil's when he plays the last trump card for the soul of his victim. Whatever it might mean there was no time to be lost. Nakshatram's one chance of escape lay in his own unfettered freedom. He turned, and fled back as fast as he could by the way he had come. As he did so imagination carried the echo of a mocking laugh along the grimy walls. Then a terrible fear sprang up in his heart. All his years of patient waiting, hoping, scheming, seemed to be crumbling to pieces over his head. And when at last he mounted the steps that led to the mysterious hollow he groaned in the terrible anguish of his spirit -- for the streak of light that had filtered through the narrow slit was gone, the slab was immovably fixed back in its groove, and, batter as he might, he could never make any impression upon it.

It had closed upon him like the top of a coffin.

CHAPTER XXIV. PURUSHA-MEDA.

THE painful, dazzling glare of another cloudless day was gone. The bright splashes of broken sunbeams that filtered through the tops of trees to the open glade, and played over those richly endowed with jewels, had lost their power to hurt. Even a brisk breeze had sprung up, relieving the tension of the heated atmosphere; but it had come too late to cool the fevered brains of the fanatical occupants of the tope. With devilish ingenuity natural reserve and modesty had been so well undermined that moral restraint was hardly any longer deemed necessary by those who found it irksome. The feelings of the people were now beyond all control, ready to run riot, and no one could say whither they might wend, or what they might not demand.

In spite of the fact that the day had been proclaimed a strict fast, intoxicants and narcotics had played no small part in this subtle process of moral degradation. It is true that so far as food was concerned the people had not broken their fast, and would, no doubt, continue their strict observance of the religious mandate until moonrise; but to be freed from earthly cares and troubles, and to be endowed with godlike powers and faculties, such as the soma drink is able to impart, was something virtuous and desirable, and so opium, bhang, toddy, and arrack -- or sura as it is called in the ritualistic language of the Brahmanas -- had been in constant demand, and as constantly supplied from sources that were apparently inexhaustible. Curds,

whey and sugar-cane had also been freely partaken of, for these were necessary to preserve the senses in their stimulated condition and to ward off the inebriation and grosser intemperance to be indulged in later. As for the deified extract of the soma plant -- the earthly incarnation of the moon-god -- that was a special monopoly of the temple, and, with few exceptions, could only be bartered for at the old Vedic price -- the gift of a girl to be a dasi, or a herd of cattle such as kings offer for divine gifts.

In the Collector's tent also, though everything seemed quiet enough so far as outward appearances went, feelings were ready enough to burst forth into violence; for suspense and uncertainty had created a severe nervous tension, which the two men were eagerly waiting to end with the first suitable opportunity for action.

The coloured reed curtain over the entrance had been rolled up, and Wrencroff and Duncan were sitting at the open tent door watching the complicated programme now in progress -- not from any desire to increase their ethnological knowledge, but from sheer inability to do the only things they wished to do.

Like the jungle-walla they had done all they could, and, little suspecting how utterly that individual had failed in his self-imposed mission, they were now speculating as to the cause of his non-appearance and waiting with growing impatience for some sign of Lloyd and his police.

"Didn't the jungle-walla say when he was likely to return?" inquired Wrencroff.

"Well, no; I can't say that he did. He is somewhat taciturn, and, for some reason or other, keeps back a good deal that he might explain. Still, as he asked me not to do anything serious till he returned, he naturally gave me the impression that he would be back soon."

"Then what is your plan, Percy, if he doesn't turn up soon?"

;< Well; it would be unwise, I think, to make any definite move now before Lloyd comes. With him we shall be in a better position to force or fight a way into the temple. A dozen steady fellows will go a wonderful distance towards keeping a riotous crowd in hand. It's not the people so much as that rascal of a priest and his dacoits whom we have to fear. If there are many of them our chances of success will hang largely upon the strength of Lloyd's police. I was depending also a good deal on the help of Naga's tribe, but if he fails to return in time, goodness only knows how they are to be got together."

"I hope we'll succeed in catching Ramayya at the start," said Wrencroff thoughtfully. "He is really more like a devil than a man, and, if he once slips through our fingers, I fancy we might as well say 'good-bye' to him."

"Yes; so do I," agreed Duncan. "He is evidently the prime leader of the wickedness of this place, and so long as he is at large we shall have no end of trouble, with him. If we can only rescue your cousin, and, at the same time, lay hands on both him and the Rajput we shall not do badly. Ah! there's Chirtha coming out of those trees." And as he spoke Duncan pointed through the open door on the opposite side of the tent.

Wrencroff rose and moved towards the door.

"No," he said, as he looked out; "it's not Chirtha, but someone very much like him."

Almost before Duncan could cross the tent and join his companion the forest-dweller -- for such he undoubtedly was -- had swiftly glided across the open space between the trees and the tent. In form and feature he was an exact copy of Chirtha; but he was not quite so muscular, nor was he as old as the guide who had saved WrencrofFs life.

"Thy name, jungle-walla?" asked Duncan, as the man put his hands together and saluted in the fashion of the forest.

"Yellum," replied the youth, releasing a letter from the strands of his hair and handing it to them.

"Who sent this?" asked both men together, viewing with surprise and curiosity the unusual address: "To the Two Sahibs in the Tope."

"Naga, the Chief," answered the young giant.

"Ah! where is he?" asked Duncan in a tone of relief.

"We know not. He gave it to us at noon, bidding us carry it to the Sahibs in the tent if he failed to give the Nagite signal midway between noon and sunset. We waited longer, hoping he would return, but he has not done so; therefore we have brought the paper."

"How many are you?" asked Wrencroff.

"We are six here. The others are waiting in a secret place for the Chief's call. Their spears have been sharpened to pierce the cruel hearts of the Lingites."

"Sit under the veranda of that tent till we see what this letter contains," said Duncan, pointing to the Swiss tent.

"I've seen that style of writing before," remarked Wrencroff, as the man turned to follow their advice.

"Yes; so have I -- but where?" answered Duncan in a puzzled voice.

"Good heavens! -- it's impossible," exclaimed Wrencroff, as the other proceeded to break the seal.

"What's impossible, Guy?" asked Duncan, looking up in surprise.

"That the writing is the same," answered the other incredulously.

"As which, man?"

"As that in the Colonel's letter to my pater."

"What! It can't be. And yet -- yes! you've got it, Guy. It's either the same or very much like it. We had better read it, however, and see what it's about and whether it gives any explanation. Sit down, and I'll read it aloud:

"MY FRIENDS -- As I sit here, on the plateau of a small conical hill overlooking the eastern side of the temple, and look down into the court below, watching, with a curious mixture of pleasure and pain, the moving outline of the being in whom all my earthly hopes and love are centred, my thoughts grow confused with strange questions, and my mind fills with many gloomy forebodings. It may be that age has suddenly made itself felt now that others have come to share the burden of this deadly strife, or it may be the consciousness that the success or failure of long years of weary watching and toil is trembling in the balance. To most, life brings nothing but the common struggle for existence. To work, eat, rest and, maybe, enjoy -- that is the sum of their daily life: of the deep bitter-and-sweet draught of life and the ever-changing face and form of death they know little or nothing. There is a sameness over all they do and feel: day by day they float, as it were, along the same placid stream, meeting, perhaps, a few cross-currents and an occasional rapid which involves a little more care and exertion, but, otherwise, drifting peacefully along through much the same scenes and experiences towards the end of their life's journey.

"With me, however, as with the favoured and the unfortunate few, it has been different: life has been a restless, changing, boisterous sea -- full of terrible scenes, wild doings, constant dangers, maddening excitements and dreadful deaths.

"As I sit here my thoughts go back twenty years to one of those startling scenes, witnessed from this very plateau. In the space of a moment I see myself deliberately, yet without prevision of that which was to come, taking the wheel of destiny into my hands and giving a new course to my fortunes. And now, with the future that then was, written in the past, and weighed down with the consequences of that moment's decision, I ask myself could I have acted otherwise than I did? Was it my duty to interfere in a long-established religious custom? Was I justified in preventing a sacrificial rite that had been performed thousands of times before? And, in the face of all that has happened since, my conscience answers in the affirmative. All my instincts of humanity, all the teaching, training and traditions of the West, drove me to snatch a helpless child from a fiendish torture. Not to have lifted a hand to stay that brutal murder would have been to brand myself for ever as a cad and a coward. And yet, nearly all that has occurred during those twenty years has been the direct fruit of that indisputably humane act.

"The struggle, of which that white slim figure in the temple court forms the pivot, is no reincarnation of religious antipathies of another birth, but simply the murderous climax of the hatred which that act roused in the hearts of the heathen Durgites when baulked of their helpless prey.

"Ah, that white figure in the court! As gentle as a dove, as pure as a child! It makes me groan in anguish as I think of her long captivity and the wickedness they have plotted against her. How much she is to me, and yet, what a little I have been able to accomplish for her! As I watch her, East and West in one, and ponder upon her origin and the diabolical plots and passions and hatreds that encircle her, I ask myself whether the love that gave her birth was in any way an unnatural one. Is every attempt to transgress the boundary between East and West doomed to similar chaos and misery? Is the racial chasm a divine limit -- impassable and eternal? In spite of much, I answer nay! The division and the struggle -- focused as it is in Ramayya and myself -- apparently racial, is in truth moral. A moral difference arising from religious principles fundamentally antagonistic. And till the difference is abolished -- till the religious principles which inevitably work out to inhuman deeds and distorted characters are uprooted, till the basis of moral conduct is one -- the racial chasm will continue to divide. It is said that the mixture of East and West produces all the evil of both and the good of neither. It is false -- false as a general principle applied to the best of both, though it may be true when one or both are of the lowest types of their nation. I say this for a reason which you no doubt begin to understand. To me that white figure in the temple court is -- the world. What she will be to you, God only knows. In body and soul she is like a white, spotless rose, and to your chivalry and protection I bequeath her in the event of my death. I speak of death, I hardly know why, unless it be some inexplicable premonition of impending evil. At least it is this irresistible feeling, together with a frightful discovery which I have just made, which impels me to write and reveal things which I could well wish to hold back a little longer.

"To you I am known as the jungle-walla and head of the Nagite tribe -- and so I am, in a sense. But the real and hereditary head of the Nagite tribe is, or ought to be, Chirtha, the brother of Yellum, and eldest son of Naga the Chief. The headship, for me, is only a disguise -- a means to serve a purpose, that purpose being the rescue of my daughter Nakshatram from the hands of these fiendish Durgites. For, as incredible as it may seem from what you know, I am in reality Colonel Wrencroff, and Stella, to give her her real name, is my daughter.

"In the letter which I wrote to my cousin just on fifteen years ago I told him that I had been wounded by the thrust of a poisoned spear. That is true, and I wrote that letter as I thought on my death-bed. But either the blade was imperfectly poisoned, or the antidotal remedies used by Naga, my servant, were effective; for I recovered, but only after a long sickness during which I suffered a strange mental aberration. When I recovered, I found myself imprisoned in one of the secret vaults of the temple. The mental aberration, I soon found, had to some extent saved my life; for Ramayya, who was one of the principal movers in my imprisonment, had from superstitious motives withheld his hand. So, seeing that it was to my benefit to do so, and hoping some day to take advantage of an unguarded moment, I pretended to be still out of my mind. Beyond Ramayya and his brother, there were few who knew of my presence beneath the temple. There was one, however, whom I have good cause to curse, and that was Raymond, my traitorous overseer, who, I found, had been nothing but a spy in my household. He now lives about the temple as a Sannyasi, but a bigger scoundrel has never walked upon the earth. Often when Ramayya, in his mad fits, would have put an end to my existence, he used whatever influence he had to restrain him from doing so; but not from any reasons of humanity. His whole being is dominated by one single impulse -- avarice. From beginning to end, since the time that he came into contact with me, he has hoped to become possessed of the wealth which he knew I possessed. He has exhausted every form of physical and mental torture to extort from me the knowledge of its hiding-place, and it would make the strongest man's flesh creep to learn the methods he used. But I, knowing that the moment he learnt it would be the last one, with hope to bring deliverance to my child, bore his afflictions and kept the secret locked in my own mind, though under the cover of my assumed insanity I ever found means to keep alive his hopes of ultimately discovering it.

"Nearly five years I spent in this dungeon, most of the time chained to a pillar -- to me it seemed an eternity in some infernal region. Sometimes I was used as a sort of oracle, sometimes as a means of sport during their orgies; at other times I was tortured or starved, or taunted about the death of my wife and the destiny of my daughter. It is indeed strange that I live; stranger still that I really remained sane.

"Meanwhile, Naga, my faithful servant, in searching for traces of my lost daughter, learnt by accident of my own imprisonment, and, after a long, patient search, he succeeded at last in reaching my place of confinement. With his assistance I escaped. My disappearance is still a mystery to the temple priests. Even to-day they have not, so far as I know, the least suspicion that I am still alive; for since then, with a hope of lulling their suspicions and fears to rest, I have lived under the disguise of a Nagite. Soon after my escape Naga and I made an attempt to carry off my child from one of the houses in the priests' Agraharam, where she had been closely purdahed since they had stolen her away five or six years before. Our plans miscarried and Naga was captured. He was handed over to be dealt with by his old hereditary foes the Lingites. The following day chanced to be the first of the ten days' festival in honour of the goddess. Linganna, the headman of the tribe, took advantage of this, and of the fact that the crops were withering on account of the late rains, and worked the people up to propitiate the goddess by sacrificing Naga according to the ancient sacrificial rite of the plough. During the night I had collected together as many of the Nagites as possible with the hope of attacking the village and rescuing Naga during the melee. But, early as we arrived, the Lingites had nevertheless been before us, and were just finishing the first act in their devilish scheme of revenge. In the middle of a large square field between the Agraharam and the forest, Naga had been buried up to his armpits in a pit of loose soil. Four pairs of young, untamed bulls tethered to their primitive ploughs were being held in check till the mad, four-cornered race had been arranged. The cruel, ignominious plight of their chief maddened the Nagites to a blinding fury. They swept down upon the unsuspecting, jeering crowds in an irresistible phalanx of glittering spears, dealing out a merciless retribution. At last Naga was dragged out of his death-trap. But he was mortally hurt and never recovered. Before we could reach a safe place in the hills he died -- died asking me to take charge of his tribe till his sons were grown to manhood, and calling upon his tribesmen to swear implicit obedience to my commands and inviolable secrecy with regard to my identity.

"Since that time I have lived under the disguise of Naga the Hillman; and since that time Stella, though unaware of the fact that she is my daughter, has been aware of my vigilance and protection. It has often been possible for me to help and advise her but seldom possible for me to attempt to get her away. Her freedom has been strictly limited to a few rooms, and the houses of the harems in which she has lived -- and they have been frequently changed for greater security -- have been prison-like and guarded by deaf-mutes drawn from Turkish seraglios. Nevertheless, by means of bribery and liberal gifts, by threats of torture and death, and by the use of unlimited disguises, I have sooner or later traced the house in which they had confined her, and, in spite of gates and bars, found means of communicating with her. But for these short stolen intervals her spirit would have been broken and crushed long ago. They have kept her hopes alive and given her strength and wisdom to guard her womanhood.

"Though known to her only as the 'Servant of the Dead,' it has, nevertheless, fallen to me to be to her father and mother in one, and to be tutor to her mind as well as physician to her body and soul. And so, unconscious though she is of the real nature of the bond between us, danger and misfortune have drawn her close to me with a sense of filial love and affection; while for me she is the centre of all that makes life dear and desirable.

"Is it surprising, then, that I often tremble with doubt and dismay when I think of the day that she must learn the truth? How will she bear that revelation? Will it destroy the dreamy ideals of the mountain chief whom she has learnt to picture as her western sire? God grant not!

"Day and night, since my child was stolen away, I have searched in vain to solve the problem of the priests' action -- until to-day. I have heard, as you have, the story of the horoscope and the Yogi's dream; and I soon learnt the current expectation of a dedication of unusual magnitude and mysterious import. But the horoscope, I knew, was false, and the dedication, though a plausible explanation, left much unsolved. Everything, as one knows, is done to undermine the womanhood of a dasi doomed to dedication; but the strife between Ramayya and his half-brother revealed to me the fact that the high-priest guarded his captive as if his life depended upon her honour. What was the meaning of his attitude? That it had some vital connection with the Yogi's dream I gathered from snatches of angry conversation; but I could never discover exactly how. In some way, and at some appointed time, Stella, my daughter, was to be made the scapegoat of her parents' sacrilege and bring a boon to the high-priest -- this, after long search, I knew to be correct; but beyond this all was hidden in the secret thoughts of the priests. Then came the explanation of it all in an interview which I witnessed between Ramayya and his brother this morning, through the aperture by which we saw their Rasapana ceremony two nights ago. Up till now there has been a severe conflict between Ramayya and his brother over the possession of Stella. Now they are agreed. Ramayya is urging on his brother to carry out his original intention, which seems to have been somewhat shaken by the unexpected presence of Europeans, and by the dacoits' failure to get them out of the way till it was accomplished. But Ramayya is insistent and inexorable; for his hate is the hate of a demon. Soon after moonrise Stella must die -- die a victim of the highest of their ancient sacrifices, the sacrifice known in the Brahmanas as the Purusha-meda, still carried on throughout India under different symbolic forms, but seldom carried out literally from fear of Mohammedan and European reprisal.

"The Yogi, it seems, promised the temple priest increased life, wealth, and offspring, if, at a certain fixed time, to be appointed by other Yogis, he offered to Durga the virgin sacrifice referred to in the Brahmanas.

"The sacrifice, he explained, would have to be fivefold in all its characteristics, and strictly dependent upon the astrological prognostications of the Yogis whom he would consult. Many years passed without any news of the Yogi and his promised consultation. At last, however, a message came from Benares, which he had reached after a long pilgrimage. The auspicious time had been sought for by the most learned sastris and astrologers whom he had met on his journey, and they had unanimously agreed that it would fall during the same fivefold combination that occurred when the horoscope of the temple priest was drawn up. According to the priest's horoscope, Jupiter, the planet presiding over the fortunes of the temple, was in one of its twelfth-year signs; a comet with a brilliant nucleus was visible in the sky from sunset to moonrise; Soma, the moon-god, rose over the hills in such a way that a single beam passed through the central pagoda and played upon the sacred pool; the constellation Mriga (Orion), the visible manifestation of the god Praja-pathi, and the Great Bear, known as the seven Rishis, were in a special position favourable for human and animal propagation and pyromantic omens and spells.

"If any one of this five-fold combination should be lacking, the sacrifice, said the message, would be useless, as the time would be inauspicious.

"The festival itself should be penta-diurnal; the middle day, counting from the waning of the moon, to be the day of the sacrifice.

"On each day a victim, or an elevenfold substitute, should be offered, the virgin being the central offering of the Purusha-meda.

"The combination falling, as it was expected to do, in the most auspicious of the five Vedic seasons, would be irresistible, provided that the comet, a sign portentous of evil and indicative of hostility, had been counteracted by a special Santi ceremony, and that the seven Rishis -- inert till brought into contact with their consorts the Pleiades -- had been assisted by the necessary sacred fire.

"This, then, was the fate assigned by the temple priest to Stella, my daughter -- to be the virgin required by the Purusha-meda for extraordinary boons, and this was the explanation of the mystery which surrounded his efforts to protect her life and honour. He is old and childless, and there is nothing in the nature of cruelty and wickedness which he would hesitate to carry out so long as they offered some hope of overcoming his misfortune. The persistency with which he has guarded Stella, and the nature of the ceremonies which they have been recently performing, show how deadly earnest he is and to what extent his hopes have been, and are, built upon the efficacy of the rite. If the astrological signs are present they will use every means possible to carry out the ancient sacrifice selected by the Yogi. And if Stella is to be saved from their murderous hands, she will have to be rescued from the temple before moonrise; for the only sign that seems to be doubtful in the minds of the priests is the presence of the comet. Should that be missing, the high-priest may avoid the actual sacrifice, hoping to accomplish it during Jupiter's next cycle -- what Ramayya will do I fear to think. So search the heavens at sunset, if you have not found a better way before then. If the comet is visible, hesitate no longer, but strain every nerve to accomplish that which I shall have failed to do. When the time comes do not be deterred from acting promptly by any false hope that Stella herself may be able to find some way of leaving the temple unseen by those whose purpose it is to keep her there. The priests are too deeply versed in intrigues not to have foreseen and provided against the possibility of such an attempt, and every step that she takes will be carefully noted by temple dasi or Lingite spy. Even the little freedom which she has enjoyed since they brought her to this temple has been more apparent than real; and, so I have gathered to-day, was simply given to her in order that her unusual appearance might make a great impression upon the people during the festival; for, according to the original scheme, she was to have been allowed to mix with the people, so that, in the event of the sacrifice being called into question later on by any of the Government officials, the priests might have witnesses to testify that it had been a voluntary act of self-immolation.

"Lacking other means of entrance, it is my intention to try a secret passage that passes beneath the temple to the Shivite idol in the garbhaliam, beneath the central pagoda. But think not of me -- only of her safety. Beware the marble image of Durga that stands beneath the gilded canopy. There is some secret mechanism connected with it which is to play an important part in the sacrifice -- God only knows what! The Nagites are waiting and will answer Yellum's call; and I think you will need them, for the priests are prepared for a struggle. Use the subtlety of the East as well as the daring of the West, for they will not hesitate to kill my daughter if they find themselves in danger of losing her. In the event of my death I leave her to your joint care and protection; and my wealth, which is considerable, I bequeath to you to divide equally. Chirtha will reveal to you its hiding-place. Do what you can to help the Nagites in their troubles; but in God's name take care of my child for whom I have tried to do so much, and yet have done so little!

"Yours faithfully.

"GUY WRENCROFF."

Duncan stared into his companion's face for a moment in silence after finishing the letter. Wren-croff's fair boyish face was like his nature -- open and ingenuous; so that it was not difficult for his friend to read the signs of the astonishment, amounting almost to incredulity, which he was now experiencing.

"Well, Captain Wrencroff," remarked Duncan at length, with a quizzical look, "what do you think of that for a stunner?"

"It is a stunner, and no mistake. Good heavens! to think the old Colonel was all the time shut up in that temple, when we all thought he was dead and gone long ago! And to think we hadn't the least suspicion of the real character of the jungle-walla. . . . Jove! He must be a wonderful man to have obliterated himself in such a way during all these years with the hope of rescuing his daughter."

"Yes," agreed Duncan. "There's no doubt that he is a most extraordinary man. I'd give a good deal to know that nothing evil has happened to him. But I am afraid his failure to appear before now is an ominous sign. He evidently felt, when he wrote this, that he was about to run a more serious danger than usual; and it looks as if his fears have proved correct. However, we'll hope not, and meanwhile do what we can to find both him and his daughter."

"Yes," answered Wrencroff thoughtfully. "I'd like to do everything possible to find them. It will make up to some extent for the indifference which he must think we showed about his affairs long ago. But I know my pater really couldn't do more -- he often told us so with great sorrow -- both for want of funds and for want of something more definite to go on."

"I'd like to see that hill overlooking the eastern side of the temple," said Duncan. "If we set off before sunset we might be able to get some idea of what is going on in the court, and afterwards see if there is anything like a comet in the sky."

"And Lloyd?" suggested Wrencroff.

"If he's not here before we start I'll leave him a note explaining the position. I'll also tell Yellum to send for his Nagites, so that he may have them close at hand in case of emergency."

CHAPTER XXV. A NAUTCH NEOPHYTE.

To Ida had fallen the victory -- and the spoil. The tyrannical beldam had ceded all claims to her unfortunate daughter-in-law, and the latter had been handed over, body and soul, to the tender mercies of the temple pyromantic.

To an intelligent observer, it might well have been a foregone conclusion that it would be so; for at times the chief dasi was like one possessed with an unholy spell over those whom she wished to ensnare. In spite of her infamous capriciousness, there was no throwing Ida off the trail of a desired victim -- she would cling to it like a sleuth-hound; for she could brook neither opposition nor defeat, and, in the consummation of her desires, her will could be as unbending as iron. Woe to man, woman or child that came within the range of her need, for she had all the secrets of sex, superstition, magic and priestcraft to work her purpose, and, sooner or later, her victims were all swept remorselessly into the baneful clutches of her insatiable appetite!

The young girl's beauty, and the promise of still further development, had, in a fateful moment, caught Ida's sinister glance, and so -- in spite of a few female qualms and a little opposition on the part of the male members of her Brahmin sub-caste -- she had become an established member of the temple precincts.

So far as the girl's mother-in-law had been concerned the thing had been easy enough; for she had seized on Ida's suggestion with avidity -- well pleased with the belt of silver which now encircled her shrunken body as an earnest of other good things to come. Further, she was exceedingly glad to find an opportunity to get rid of the child altogether; for she could only be a burden upon her own slender resources, and an obstacle in her future attempts to attach herself to some of her caste relations; then again, as a childless widow, the girl was very unlucky to all with whom she came in contact, and as time went on must inevitably become a cause of disgrace amongst jealous and slanderous females. But the most powerful reason was, perhaps, the fact that she intensely disliked her; she could hardly bear the sight of her -- and this because her son had openly shown a genuine love and, no doubt, a little partiality for the wishes of his girlish wife. To some it may seem unnatural and terribly unjust; but in India, because a girl is married to a man, it does not at all follow that she should therefore aspire to the rule in her own household. There may be, and generally is, a mother-in-law; and if so, woe to the girl who asserts herself, or even shows a tendency to seek and to centre in herself the best and the strongest affections of her husband! For most mothers expect to find in their son's wife a domestic drudge without any ambition or will of her own -- and often an object on which to vent their spite and bad humours.

Should one of the hired Deva-dasis seek to wean his love away during the marriage festivities, that would only be according to the common order of things and be generally accepted as an honour due to the goddess of Kama; but for a wife to try and win his love. . . .!" Out on her for a shameless hussy!" would be the cry of most mothers. "Let her perform her household slavery and bear his children! . . . for what else did he marry her?"

And, perhaps, it is not surprising that they should do so. For custom compels the girl to be married before she is twelve, and how could such a child attempt to guide the intricate requirements of her husband's household (who might be any age) or be expected to feel genuine affection and admiration for him, or partake in his intellectual pursuits!

And this child had been very unfortunate; for her husband had cared for her sufficiently to show it openly in the presence of his mother, and the girl herself had not always been diplomatic in her attitude. Moreover, she had been, as girls often are in the East, a precocious child, with a quiet sense of dignity that refused to acquiesce calmly in a selfish tryanny carried on unceasingly. And the result had been inevitable -- household disturbances; but with the uncommon difference that her husband, instead of beating her into submission to his mother's outrageous exactions, had defended her frequently from personal violence.

There had been less eagerness with the other females of the caste. They were too ignorant and superstitious to explain rightly their reluctance; but for many reasons, they were not at all sure that it was wise or fitting to hand her over completely to Ida's keeping. After all she was only fourteen, and, though they had ill-treated her according to an ancient custom, there was still a little humanity in some of their breasts as they thought of their own little daughters. But the steel-like glints of Ida's eyes and the biting sarcasm of her retorts soon reduced them to silence, and frightened them not a little. And then there was the vivid contrast which their superstitions and their religious ceremonial had combined to produce -- the ill-luck and disgrace of a widow's presence compared with the gain and virtue of her dedication to the service of the temple and its adherents. It was a plausible argument and the priestess was not slow to make the most of it.

This young, childless widow, as Ida pointed out, would only have to submit to the usual fate of those in a similar position. In the end Ida's sophistry, half-veiled threats and seductive promises carried the day, so that both men and women agreed that it was for the child's glory and their own good that she should be dedicated to the goddess -- and that immediately; for the priestess had a purpose, and would grant no delay.

When Ida had approached to lead her away, the young child -- ignorant though she was of the dasi's intentions -- had shrunk back from her as one does instinctively from a poisonous reptile. But that had not availed much; for she had been forcibly uprooted from her girlish home and associations and set down in an environment she could not yet understand -- an environment in which she would probably soon fade away; for by instinct and training she belonged to a sphere vastly different from Ida's, and all that the Deva-dasis could teach her would be weakened by the memory of a husband's kind love and the sanctity of a wife in her legitimate home.

And now, as the evening of the great festival drew to a close, the girl-widow, overcome with mental distress and physical pain, and bordering on a state of hysteria, sat or rather crouched in the colonnade where Nakshatram -- or, as we know her now, Stella, the daughter of Colonel Wrencroff -- had dreamed her dreams and found dark shadows instead.

Near to the child knelt Stella -- an unconscious, but touching picture of Samaritan pity and kindness. The girl's distress hurt her horribly. She understood it only too well. Her womanly instinct told her that she was unsophisticated and untainted by vice -- a child naturally clean and clinging. And now the utter defencelessness and hopelessness of her future! It was all so inhuman. Instead of being kindly and sympathetically treated for her misfortune, she had been brutally oppressed by her husband's own people, and then ruthlessly sold into the hands of a tribe of human parasites. Would deliverance never come to these people? Were they to be dominated for ever by the cruel grinding customs of their caste-system and the fiendish demands of their bloodthirsty gods and goddesses? Stella held the girl's small, shapely foot in her hands -- massaging gently, for the unfortunate widow had been stung by a scorpion and for nearly an hour Stella had spent all her energy in trying to subdue the agony. At last the gland had gone down and the pain had been reduced to the point of puncture.

"Amma!" murmured the young widow timidly.

"What is it, child?" asked Stella kindly, noting the little catch in the girl's voice. "Is the pain coming back?"

"No: it has all gone now; but I am afraid."

"Of what?"

"What is it, amma, they are going to do to-night? Is it true they are going to give the temple god another wife?"

"Ah!" exclaimed Stella; and something in her voice made the girl look into her eyes with a puzzled expression on her own tear-stained face.

"Art thou also afraid?" she asked, dropping the more distant form of respectful speech, as she suddenly realised that they were sisters in distress.

Stella laughed a soft, sad laugh that suggested inexplicable things.

"I think, I am -- a little," she answered, smiling bravely. "It is all so strange and weird. But we must try and be brave, and God, the real God, who is strong and kind, will watch over us."

"But, amma, what is it makes thee afraid also? I am a widow, and sometimes, it is said, they will even burn widows because they make such mischief. But thou! who would hurt one so kind and gentle as thou? And thou art beautiful too, so that all who see thee will love thee for thy fairness, which is as great as that of the foreigners in the tents under the trees."

"Ah!" said Stella with a new light in her splendid eyes; "thou hast seen the white rulers then?"

"Yes; one of them spoke kindly to me this morning. Gangamma, who became a dancing girl because my husband would not marry her, was pulling my hair and cursing me. And the white stranger, who was passing our way, stopped, and spoke to her so harshly that she fled away in fear. And now I think I begin to understand many things spoken by the people. Thou art the one whom they wish to dedicate to the god, and there is something between thee and the white men in the tent. Is it not so, amma?"

"Yes," answered Stella softly, as the rich warm blood swept upward to her pale cheeks. "Thou hast, indeed, understood rightly; for one is of my own blood, and of the other I am the sworn wife."

"But if that is so, why art thou here?" asked the girl wonderingly.

"Because these temple Brahmins stole me away from my home when I was a child, and since then I have been purdahed so that none of my people knew whether I was alive or dead. And now, under the pretence that I am one of their own people, they wish to dedicate me as one of the Deva-dasis of the temple."

"And these kinsmen of thine, amma, do they not know that thou art in the temple?"

"Yes," answered Stella quietly, her face again grown pathetically white; "they are now aware that I am alive and living in the temple."

"But if so, why have they not come and taken thee away?" inquired the young widow, whose voice had dropped almost to a whisper in her terror of the unknown forces about her.

"I do not know; but I think they have tried and failed. There are many dangers to guard against, and they may not have found a way yet to do what they think best."

"But, amma, if they do not come quickly -- what then? The people, I heard, were only to wait for the moon, and after that the gates are to be opened and the new wife of the god worshipped."

"Ah, child, God alone knows that which is to be; but I think the white rulers will come -- if not . . .!" and Stella shuddered.

"If not?" demanded the trembling child.

"Then thou shalt promise me something, little one, for the love I have shown thee, wilt thou not?"

"I, amma! What good can an unlucky widow do for anyone? Yet thou hast been kind to me, and I would give my life to help thee."

"Thou art, indeed, a grateful child," said Stella, as she touched the girl's hair caressingly. "And dost know, little one, that thou art very pretty -- as fair also as I am."

"Nay," answered the young widow with a pathetic smile; "'tis but thy kindness makes thee say so."

"Yet, methinks, thy husband must have often told thee so," replied Stella gently.

"'Tis true," was the softly spoken answer. And the girl's eyes filled with tears at the memory of things that were gone from her life for ever.

"Tell me," she asked after a moment's silent weeping; "what is it thou wouldst like me to do?"

"I would have thee promise me, that if aught happen to me, thou wilt do thy best to find an opportunity to seek out the two strangers in the tent."

"And then, amma?"

"Give them a message from me."

"And that?"

"That I, Nakshatram, was faithful in all things to him who chose me as his wife, and that my spirit will wait for his through all the yugas to come."

"But thou, Nakshatram, what of thee?" asked the sobbing child.

"I -- I shall be dead -- rather than polluted by their hideous rites," answered Stella quietly.

"But," objected the widow, "thou wilt wait patiently and see -- wilt thou not? Even when the people enter the temple there may be some way to escape. Thy kinsmen may be waiting till then, thinking that it will be easier to get thee away with so many people about."

"Yes, child, thou art right. And I will do nothing so long as they seek not to make me like one of themselves. So thou wilt promise, is it not so?"

"I will promise, amma. If thou canst die, so can I also. I would do so gladly, for I am a widow, and none will care if others treat me cruelly, as they have done to-day. Yet I will do as thou hast asked me, and after . . .! But, Nakshatram, there is something I should tell thee, for it may help thee."

"What is it, child?" asked Stella, wondering in what way this forsaken and ill-treated young widow could help, where strong men had failed.

"On the south side of the temple wall," replied the girl, "there is no gopuram. It is all thick forest up to the wall, and no one seems to go there. But in a dark corner there is a small wooden door. It was through this door that Ida the dasi brought me into the temple. I was frightened, and did not wish to come into the temple, and, as I struggled to get back to the door after Ida had pulled me through, I saw Ida drop the key with which she had opened and then locked it. She did not notice it, and I, thinking that I might get an opportunity to-night to run away, pushed it under some earth and stones with my foot."

"And it is there still?" asked Stella anxiously.

"I think it must be," replied the child excitedly.

"Try, child, to find out somehow or other. In half an hour's time it will be dark, and thou mayst then be able to go to that side without attracting notice. If it be possible bring it back with thee. And God grant that it may be the means of our deliverance!"

CHAPTER XXVI. MAGIC AND MYSTICISM.

WHATEVER may have been the object and meaning of sacrifice in the far-off Rig-Vedic period when patriarchal rishis made their offerings to beneficent deities, it is certain that the idea of atonement had fallen into the background long before the development of Tan-trika teaching. From the time that the Atharvaveda and Brahmanas were adopted as the popular manuals of religion, the beauty and simplicity of primitive worship became lost in a maze of intricate rites; while the darkest forms of superstition (with their inevitable train of evil customs), the crudest of infantile speculations, and the wildest of imaginations were gradually accepted and established as the highest expressions of divine revelation.

Religion, originally an expression of man's spiritual needs, had dwindled to a complicated system of magical rites, many of which were simply cloaks for immoral deeds. The true conception and heinous character of sin were hidden away behind a crowd of puerile regulations and errors connected with ceremonial acts and social transgressions. Prayer was no longer used as a means of pouring out man's soul to the Supreme or his offspring, the minor deities; for mystics and ascetics had revealed the fact that the gods were not superior to men either in holiness or spiritual influence, and so prayer had been changed into spells and incantations to work the good and evil desires of those who knew how to use them. There is a continual struggle between the two different gods to outdo each other in immoral and dishonest practices, and the power of the victor lies in his accurate knowledge of a suitable sacrifice; and the priests, having realised this, are no longer men of righteousness leading their brethren nearer to God, but magicians striving to wrench from the gods the knowledge that will give them power over all things seen and unseen. With this knowledge nothing, they are persuaded, is impossible. They no longer attempt to teach men the supposed truths of their early Vedas; the Vedas themselves are gods and the esoteric knowledge which they draw from them they preserve in cabalistic expressions by which they are able to bring to their aid all the demons, ghosts, goblins, ogresses, rakshasas, panis, yatudanis, grahis, heroes, and gods that fill the earth, air, and unseen worlds. Beyond all other means of supernatural power and propitiatory rites stands the Yajna, or sacrifice. In no sense was it meant to be expiatory; it was simply an oblation of food to feed, nourish, and glut the ferocity and greed of the gods. Of piacular sacrifice, as western nations understand it, there was little or nothing, even during the early Brahmana period. The whole purport of the ritual and all the subsidiary rites was a supreme effort to drag supernatural knowledge and power from invisible beings. And this result could only be gained by a most rigid observance of the most trivial precautions, all of which were accompanied by special mantras. It mattered not whether the object were good or bad, moral or immoral, the success or failure of the Yajna depended solely on an exact knowledge of the ritualistic details and the careful enunciation of mystical words and syllables. Whatever may be claimed for the beauty of purity of the ancient Vedic religion, it nevertheless stands as an historical fact that for more than two thousand years the majority of Brahmins and the mass of the people have been guided in their ritual and religious thought by the Brahmanas, Puranas and Tantras -- manuals vitally connected with the Vedas -- and that already within the Vedas themselves there lay the germinating principles of Brahmin deification, caste system, female degradation, and the rudiments of the idolatry, magic, mysticism, and immorality of the Vamacharins, Vallabhacharins, and popular Hinduism. Saivism, or the special glorification of the third person in the Hindu Triad, known in the Rig-Veda as Rudra, was the steady degeneration from the earlier Brahminism towards Tantrism. The last was the logical, and, as regards practice, the inevitable result of the development of the god's Sakti, or female manifestations. And, in spite of all the subtle arguments of philosophers to uphold the esoteric interpretation of the symbols, deeds, utterances and idols of the god and goddess -- in spite of the valiant attempts of social and religious reformers to remove the glaring evils from their midst, neither Brahminism nor popular Hinduism has recovered, nor ever can recover, from its dreadfully degrading influence. Puranas, Tantras, temples, sculpture, art, drama, poetry, philosophy, customs -- all are contaminated with it.

In some of the popular centres of Saivism the figures on the temple walls, and the tenets and rites followed by the temple votaries, are much worse than those elsewhere. The temple in the tope belonged to the more degraded set. The sculpture was glaringly Tantrika; the worship almost entirely phallic. Magical rites and mystical ways were more sought after and more closely observed than the directions of the Sastras. The twofold object of the priests' ambition was the complete possession of power -- temporal and spiritual -- and the soul's future promotion in the transmigratory grades of existence. And to this end they maintained a rigid adherence to the two central doctrines of their creed: the pre-eminence of the Brahmin as the hereditary guardian of divine mysteries and occult science, and the super-excellence of the Yajnas, or sacrifices to Durga, the female manifestation of Shiva.

While Kamalakshi, the young widow, was talking to Stella, the priests were busily engaged in performing the ritual connected with the twilight invocations called the Sandhya. The Sandhya is a complicated ceremony made up of ablutions, mantras, gyratory movements, cracking of fingers, libations, invocations to the Triad, and special forms of puja offered to fire and water. It is binding upon all orthodox Brahmins, and is regarded as the most sublime and the most effective of all the daily ceremonies which they are called upon to observe. It is neither interesting nor intelligible to the uninitiated; and to most, the minute directions for suspension of breath and for touching the various physical parts, appear foolishly childish, though the initiated hold that every detail has an esoteric meaning, and is of such vital importance that the slightest omission vitiates the whole.

Darkness came on, and as it deepened the fear of the girls increased; for a new note of fierceness crept into the rhythmical chorus of the priests, who had now collected from all parts of the great court into a group round the figure of Durga.

In front of the idol sat the old high-priest, reciting, in his high-pitched quavering voice, the lines of some metrical spell. At the end of every line the circle of shishyas would answer with a peculiar syllable, having the double purpose of pleasing a god, and at the same time of guarding a special part of the body. And these mystic syllables: "H'rim, H'rom, H'rum; Im, am, um; Tarn, dam, dham; Vam, Yam, Ksham," spoken almost in a whisper in their first form, increased gradually in power as the line was repeated faster and faster, till at last they burst forth in fierce growls like the angry baying of a pack of hounds.

At length there came a sudden silence; a silence almost more fearsome than the fanatical chant, for it conveyed nothing to the two girls beyond the possibility of a danger that was creeping nearer. Had they been initiated into the secret process of mantras they would have understood that it was the priests' great effort to drag from the gods their goodwill towards the supreme act that was to be consummated in the Purusha-meda at moonrise.

For as the spell proceeded, the priests, in accordance with their own Tantrika teaching, had completely closed one nostril then the other, and afterwards the ears and eyes, and finally their mouths, until the body was at last held rigidly in a sort of trance; while the mind -- still dwelling upon the mystical sounds, and the purpose to be achieved -- departed into higher regions to invoke the aid of friendly deities.

CHAPTER XXVII. TWO ANCIENT RITES.

MEANWHILE, within the temple itself a curious scene was taking place. In order to give the reader some idea of its significance, it is necessary to introduce him into one of the dark secret chambers of the temple. In the course of this narrative it has often been hinted that the temple and its precincts were more or less riddled with these gloomy recesses. They were part of the necessary accessories of Tantric teaching -- not only with a view to facilitating the impudent trickery and impostures practised upon the credulity of the pilgrims, but also for the purpose of hiding deeds which could only be done with safety in profound secrecy. The reader has, of course, never before entered this dismal chamber, but it is possible that he may remember having been permitted a passing glimpse of its ghostly interior. For it was in the same room that the rasapana ceremony was performed some nights before. Even beyond the accumulations of dirt, the monstrously fat figure of the grinning goddess, and the low slab ceiling -- streaked with the smoke of strange sacrifices -- there was still something repulsively evil in its appearance. For as the human countenance is coarsened and brutalised by persistence in unnatural wickedness, so also in much the same way did this haunt of the Durgite magicians bear visible signs of the malignant proclivities of the deity who had presided over the crimes committed there.

At this moment the intense darkness of the secret recess was broken by the dull red glow of fire that smouldered in a large curiously-chased brazier. From the brazier dark fumes now and then rose in spiral columns filling the place with a heavy scent that was almost narcotic in effect. Fragrant spices, scented gum resins, sandal-wood, durbha grass, bits of fig tree and tulsi plant, and mysterious compounds lay in a heap near the brazier, ready to feed the fire.

A man and a woman, both scantily clothed, sat near the fire. In the uncertain light of a fitful flame they looked like a ghoulish couple preparing an iniquitous feast. Dead silence reigned in the chamber; for the pair sat perfectly motionless, and no sound from outside could penetrate the thick walls which surrounded them. They had just completed their oblation to the fire, and were waiting for a sign expected by the woman. For them the burning material inside the brazier was no longer a fire -- it was the palpable and visible form of a god. The metamorphosis had taken place by virtue of the man's mantra, as it does -- or is supposed to do -- every time the orthodox Brahmin makes his homam or offering to a fire. But it was the sakti or female counterpart of the god for whom they now looked, and her presence could only be brought about by the woman's deeper knowledge of incantatory spells. And so they waited and watched; and as the fire died down to a few embers their own forms became merged in the darkness that surrounded them. Not only silence but darkness also now reigned in the chamber.

At last the woman's voice broke the silence:

"It has failed," she said in a voice that the other hardly recognised.

"Nothing at all?" asked the man in a tone of mingled rage and disappointment.

"Nothing," was the curt reply.

"Then we must repeat it?" questioned her companion.

"As thou wilt "; and, as she answered, the woman threw some white powder upon the dying embers. A blue flame sprang up with a hissing sound, and as the woman fed the flame with dried tulsi plant and twigs of sacred fig tree there was soon a bright fire, by the light of which it was easy to recognise the faces of Ramayya the priest and Ida the chief of the Deva-dasis.

Ramayya's features were convulsed with rage. He rose to his feet and proceeded to do and to say things which might seem incredible to those unlearned in the vigorous methods used by Hindu gods and Hindu worshippers. He stood in front of the horrible figure of the goddess, cursing her right and left and pouring out against her all the virulent invectives his tongue could lay hold upon, and then, having exhausted his vocabulary, he began to batter her face with his fist, saying, as he did so:

"May Shiva, thy lord, desert thee for the daughter of the white chief if thou dost not listen favourably to the petitions which we make to thee this night!"

Ida looked on unmoved. Such words and actions, so far as her conception of divine claims were concerned,

were the natural insults to heap upon a god that remained obdurate. She had often done the same kind of thing -- and worse. She would have probably vented her spite against the obstinate goddess to-night, but Ramayya was there to do it for her, and so she herself was left free to use the more conciliatory methods of persuasion.

"The time passes," said Ramayya irritably, returning to the brazier. "Let us proceed with the sacrifice."

"We must repeat the holocaust then," replied Ida. "But first renew thy promise."

"It shall be as thou desirest, Ida. Thou knowest me. I have never yet failed thee," answered the priest impatiently.

"True, Ramayya. And I shall have the girl's jewels -- especially the tiara which thy brother makes her wear?"

"I have sworn it at the feet of Durga," replied the priest. "We took the jewels when we took the child -- and they are both accursed."

"If the sign for which the Jyothis are searching the heavens doth not appear, thou wilt hand the girl over to me?" she continued interrogatively.

"Thou shalt have her -- for the present at least."

"And thou wilt make the white Collector surfer?" hissed the dasi.

"Aye; for more reasons than one he shall suffer -- and die sooner or later by my hand," answered the priest venomously.

"Let us go on, then," said the dasi. "The fire is ready. Say thy mantra, and make the offering. And perchance the goddess will be more willing to reveal the fate that lies in store for thee."

So Ramayya repeated his powerful mantra, offered his oblations of rice, and ghee, and sandal-wood, and incense, and coco-nut, and other such things; made a low obeisance to the fire, then sat down and stared into the brazier, meditating on many strange thoughts. In the meantime Ida was employed in following the details of her own ritual. By means of a wand made of durbha grass she sprinkled herself and the place she sat upon with sacred water from a pot near by. In weird chants and mystic language she then began to recite the theogonies of her ancestral deities; and having done her customary puja to each and invoked the presence and aid of all, and having risen from her humble prostration before the sacred fire, she proceeded to sing, with lavish praises, the virtues of her mother-goddess till the fire assumed the shape she desired, when she also sat down and gazed with Ramayya into the blue flame that flickered in its centre.

Thus once more silence prevailed inside the magician's den, as it prevailed also outside around the Durga idol, where the band of priests and their disciples were concentrating their faculties upon the higher spheres of mantraic activities.

At length Ida sprinkled a dark substance over the blue flame.

The blue flame died out, leaving a dark column of smoke in its place; the fragrant smell of frankincense gave way to an overpowering smell of asafoetida, and soon after a beautiful reddish-yellow flame burnt where the blue one had been. The atmosphere of the place was by now almost unbearable; but Ramayya was used to the difficulties of the Black Art, and, knowing that even a cough or a sneeze was sufficient to break a spell, he fought back the inclination to indulge in these and repeated mentally all the counteracting mantras suitable to the occasion.

His violent efforts at last met with their desired reward.

"The goddess hath heard!" droned a voice unlike Ida's.

"And her answer?" gasped the priest, who, like many thoroughly wicked men, was more suspectible to magical influences than to any threat or fear of divine retribution.

"Is partly written in the sky -- the rest is not so easy to read," answered the dasi, whose gaze was now like one talking in a dream.

"Ah; thou meanest the tailed star which the Jyothis are searching for. Yet that is a small part of what I would know. Canst thou no tell me more?"

"It is difficult," was the answer.

"Yet thou must go on. We have sworn the oath at the feet of the goddess," replied the priest angrily.

"As thou wilt, Ramayya. Nevertheless it may profit thee nothing, and, as thou knowest, I have no wish to do thee harm."

"It matters not. Read on; I would know all -- even the worst."

"Hearken then. The vision is blurred and will last but a short time. Yet this know: trouble and difficulty and sorrow are preparing for thee this night. But hold! -- it is not all evil; it is not all sorrow. There is much that thou wouldst have mixed with it. The girl will be at thy mercy -- how long, how short a time I know not. Ah! -- 'tis well for thee. Thou wilt soon reign -- and thy reign shall be a long one. And in the years to come -- and I see thee old -- thou wilt be close upon the heels of thine enemies and!"

The reddish-yellow flame had died out suddenly, leaving only the red glow of the embers to light up the evil faces of the two Durgites.

"It is over, then?" murmured the priest excitedly.

"Yes," answered the dasi quietly in her natural tone.

"And thou believest it true, Ida?" asked the man anxiously.

"Has it ever been false?" replied the woman caustically.

But before the priest could reply, a door opened suddenly, and the priests who had been carrying out the ceremonies near the Durga idol began to stream into the chamber. In the flickering flames of the candelabra, which some of them were carrying, their glittering eyes and excited faces looked more fiendish then ever.

Ramayya's brother, the aged high-priest of the temple, who was the first to enter, held a smoking thurible in his trembling hands. By his side walked a young acolyte carrying a large, covered tray. A quick glance of angry suspicion passed between the brothers as they looked at each other.

"We missed thee, Ramayya," said the old priest with assumed calmness.

"'Tis true, brother. Yet, as thou see'st, it was not that I was unmindful of the ceremonies necessary for our success," answered Ramayya, lifting his hands to his forehead in acknowledgment of the other's priestly superiority, but at the same time lowering his eyelids to hide the jealousy that gleamed behind them.

"Ah! 'tis well, little brother! Thou hast been engaged on one of the mysteries, then? How went the signs?"

"We have offered to the seven planets, to the seven Rishis, and to the three kinds of fire. The signs were favourable in all, brother."

"And Ida?"

"Hath found only omens that were good, excepting the tailed star which lies in the wake of Surya"

"'Tis true, little brother. The Jyothi watching from the central gopuram found it but a few minutes ago. It is the unfavourable sign of these foreign devils in the tope, so we have come hither to deal with them according to our ancient wisdom." And as the old priest spoke he made a sign to the acolyte by his side to remove the covering from the tray which he was holding. The young Brahmin did so, and the sight revealed might have been burlesque in the extreme had it not been for the deadly purpose which moved those who beheld it.

Upon the tray were two ludicrous figures formed of soft, damp dough. In spite of their fantastical shapes and accoutrements it was impossible to make any error as to their nature and purpose: they were grotesque caricatures of the two men in the tent, and with these the priest and his satellites were about to perform a telepathic rite practised in India long before the dawn of western civilisation.

After a number of preliminary precautions and mantraic utterances against possible intervention on behalf of the two victims, the sympathetic models were set up in front of the goddess and solemnly stabbed by the priests, who had prepared themselves long thorns for the purpose. When this was over, they were then suspended over a fire, which one of the priests had brought on a chafing-dish, and cooked slowly till they were hard and dry; after which they were cut up into pieces and swallowed by the priests, who celebrated the gruesome act with one of their mantraic chants.

This magical rite, like the Gayatri and the use of mystical words, may at first sight seem very childish and ridiculously absurd, but the reader has still to realise that it was intended to synchronise with and invisibly assist a more criminal procedure of the priests' emissaries who were at that moment doing their best to carry out literally that which the priests were doing figuratively.

Moreover, these things -- symbolical figures, mystical sounds, mantraic forces, etheric doubles, charms, amulets and spells -- lose a good deal of the apparent puerility associated with them, when it is taken into consideration that they are in general use for all kinds of purposes, good and bad, not only amongst the quacks and charlatans of the country but also amongst the intellectual classes of the Hindus, and are also philosophically dealt with in treatises by various occultists connected with the esoteric section of the Theosophical Society in India.

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE MESSAGE.

THE conclave of Shivite potentates was exultant. Unanimity prevailed amongst them: they were all as one heart and one mind in the matter. It had been resolved that one should die for the many, and there was no dissentient voice on the score of humanity or legality. With others, under the more direct supervision of the foreigner, it might be expedient to adapt themselves to new ways and new ideas, but for themselves they preferred the customs of their ancestors. They would have nothing to do with the heresy: "Tempera mutantur, nos et mutamur in Hits." Why should they surrender these things which the gods and demi-gods had found so effective?

The knowledge of the Yogi was the proof of the efficacy of the rite which he had commended to the high-priest. His astronomical forecast had been almost too wonderful to believe, yet there, standing in the sky, was the comet to justify his prognostications. The heavenly signs were working steadily to the necessary fivefold concurrence.

Everything promised success: there had been neither hitch nor error in the preliminary rites; the omens had all been good; the tests applied had revealed only auspicious conditions -- except that which pointed to the presence of their enemies in the tent. This, however, they had provided against.

The people had long been promised some wonderful manifestation of the latent power of their religion, and now at last they would have their expectations fulfilled. The temple would become more famous than ever; riches and power would flow to those who lived upon its revenues.

Already the gifts and offerings of the festival had surpassed all expectations.

The goddess beneath the canopy was a blaze of jewelled splendour. She looked more malignant than ever. And well she might; for there was a helpless victim held close in her ghastly clasp.

The old high-priest had taken a new lease of life. Faith in the efficacy of the rite had acted upon him like an elixir -- infusing new vigour to his frame. His eye was brighter, his gait more erect, his step firmer. This strange spectacle of rejuvenescence imparted enthusiasm to his satellites; for it held out unlimited hopes for their own future. The gods, said the priest to himself and his followers, had been good to him at last. He was resolved to serve them with increased fervour in the future, and visions of a tremendous revival of the ancient Yajnas with their full ritual began to seethe in his senile brain. There need be no end now to his ambitions -- temporal or spiritual.

These foreigners, of course, would try to make trouble. But what of that? The girl's European connection could be easily disproved after the event; and the sacrifice could be shown to be a case of religious self-immolation. Nor were the priests altogether without good ground for their assurance, at least so far as the perpetration of their infamous deed was concerned; for their preparations had been carried out without any signs of opposition on the part of those whom they feared most, and it now wanted less than half an hour to the fatal moonrise.

Such, indeed, was the position, and no one was more painfully conscious that the precious moments were slipping by than Stella herself, who, as we shall soon see, lay bound, resigned to the worst, without hope of assistance, without hope of mercy, yet trusting implicitly in the two men around whom all her dreams had circled, and in whom all her love and affections were centred.

As the two men were preparing to leave the tent, a soft, tremulous voice said gently:

"Sahib!"

Looking around, Duncan saw a tall, slim, girlish figure standing close to the tent.

"Come in, will you?"

As she drew aside the upper part of her sari, which had up till now hidden her face, Duncan recognised her as the young widow whom he had seen ill-treated in the morning. He had thought her a good-looking girl then, but he was still more impressed with her now. As for Wrencroff, the effect which her appearance made upon him was such that admiration mingled with pity in his gaze as he noted the beauty of her features. His medical instinct read at once the indescribable terror that filled her eyes. At the same time there was an unmistakable determination in her small, clear-cut face.

"You want to see me?" said Duncan kindly.

"The Dora will perhaps remember that he spoke kindly to a widow this morning?"

"Yes, I remember quite well. I was sorry to see them ill-treating a child who had already suffered a great misfortune. Speak out, amma, without fear. If it lies in my power to help you, I will do so gladly. But I fear that time presses just now, and I have not the leisure -- "

"It is enough if the Dora listen but a few moments. . . What I have to tell may be of use to him; if so, the risk will not have been in vain. . . When the Dora had gone away after scolding Gangamma, they sent me away to the temple with Ida the Deva-dasi. There was one there called Nakshatram -- a woman, beautiful, and as fair as the Collector Dora himself. She also was kind and patient towards me, and my heart went out towards her like a child's to its mother. And when she asked me I promised faithfully to carry her message to the Sahibs -- if anything happened to her."

"And hast thou come with the message?" interposed Duncan.

"Yes, Sahib. I have brought her message."

"Then something has happened?" said Duncan, whose face had turned white.

"Yes, Dora."

"Tell me the message, amma."

"That Nakshatram was faithful in all things to him who chose her as his wife, and that her spirit will wait for his through all the yugas to come."

"Is she dead, then?" asked Duncan quietly; but there was the thud of fierce passions behind his words. "Tell me quickly and plainly. If they have done aught to her, I will find a way to pull down their hell-born temple about their ears."

"Nay; she is not yet dead, but she may be soon; for they have bound her to the idol of the goddess, and wait only for some sign which will be the signal of her death."

"The inhuman brutes!" remarked Wrencroff.

"And is there no way to get near to help her at once, without letting them know our purpose?" asked Duncan.

"Yes, Sahib. See!" -- and as the girl spoke she held out a ponderous key. "It is for a small door on the south side of the temple which I will show you."

"Let us go immediately, then," said both men at once.

"As you wish, Sahibs. But" -- and she hesitated;

then continued with a pathetic appeal in her eyes: "There is one request "

"Thou hast only to mention it, amma," said Duncan, seeing her difficulty.

"It is that ye will not let me fall into the hands of the priests or the dasis. They will kill me if they know that I have helped the Doras to take Nakshatram away."

"Yes, that is true. And we will do all in our power to get thee away from their evil influence. But let us go; for there will be much to do and little time to do it in."

"The Collector Dora speaks wisely, and it is necessary that we go quickly. But it will be better if the Sahibs permit me to go first and wait for them at the southeast corner. There are many people, and there may be trouble if we are seen together."

So, leaving the key with the men, Kamalakshi slipped out of the tent; and, keeping to the darker shadows of the line of mango trees, worked her way silently towards the eastern side of the temple.

A few minutes later the men followed, armed with loaded sticks and revolvers.

CHAPTER XXIX. INSIDE THE TEMPLE COURT.

"Do you think the door is a reality? It's beginning to look like a myth, and yet I can't bring myself to think that the girl's a fraud."

"No; I'm sure she spoke only the truth." As he spoke Duncan moved nearer to a tree. It was a very big tree and the back part of it touched the temple wall. The shape of it was curious, and it was this fact which drew Duncan to examine it more carefully. From the height of a man's head the main stock as it descended bifurcated into two distinct trunks. The hollow thus formed had been ingeniously covered by the trailing branches of some creepers which grew round the tree. Duncan pulled one of them aside; as he did so his suspicions became confirmed.

"Come along, Guy, and help with this. I think I've found it," he cried.

The two men had soon pulled aside the false covering, and there, sure enough, on the far side of the tree was a small door into the temple court. It was probably quite a recent device, for the Nagites who had gradually collected round were ignorant of its existence, and showed their surprise in curious guttural exclamations.

Taking Yellum and two or three others chosen by him, and having arranged with the rest of the Nagites upon a signal in case they should be needed, the two men passed through the little door which they had no difficulty in opening with the key that Kamalakshi had brought to them. Through the door they gained access to a long narrow alley between the blank walls of two separate buildings, and having traversed this with all the speed that caution would permit, they found themselves at last on the eastern side of the great sacred pool.

It was still too dark to distinguish things clearly in the temple court, though the pale light upon the fringe of the hills showed that the moon would soon be visible. A flare of lights, however, lit up the far side of the temple, and so they were able to watch the excited group of priests and Deva-dasis collected between the western colonnade and the central pagoda. As they watched an exclamation of fury burst from their lips, for the group suddenly parted in a way that enabled them to see the idol, and there amidst the lights Stella could be seen clinging with her arms around the idol's neck, and her body trailing to the ground as it were in a posture of abandonment. As they moved forward more quickly one of the Nagites slipped ahead into the colonnade built along the eastern wall. His object was soon evident, for a moment after the figure of the Sannyasi left the shadow of the colonnade and fled towards the group of priests, while the spear which had just missed him fell harmlessly into the pool with a splash -- to the sound of a note of warning. Realising that caution was now no longer necessary, they hurried on in a body along the northern side and would have continued along the western, but here their progress was impeded by the outraged body of priests who had seen them, and moved forward to meet them. The old high-priest, who was at their head, was almost speechless with rage and terror lest his long-deferred hopes should be for ever destroyed by their sacrilegious presence. All the infamous wickedness of his past life seemed to be revived and made manifest in his countenance as he faced Duncan and Wrencroff and bade them begone with their low caste followers before he cursed them for having interfered with the sacred ceremonies and polluted the temple by their unclean and impious entrance during a religious rite at which even the caste Hindus could not be present. And his words were taken up by the other priests who emphasised them with angry gesticulations, curses and terrible threats of vengeance, until the court seemed to shake under the fierce imprecations of this maleficent band of Durgite worshippers.

At last Duncan made himself heard. Their curses and threats, he told them, could go for what they were worth; so far as he himself was concerned he cared not a whit about them. But as for his own words they would soon find that they were not merely empty threats; for they would all quickly rue and regret the thing they were now doing, if they persisted in it. It was the hopelessly mad idea of a superstitious priest who feared death. If they had done harm, or by any chance succeeded in doing harm to the girl whom they were really trying to sacrifice under the covering of a dedication, he would have their cursed temple taken away from their evil influence. The girl was a European, of this they had the strongest possible proof which no one could gainsay, and the priests would have to answer for anything they did to her. They, themselves, would leave the temple quietly on the condition that the girl was handed over to them at once -- if not, then let them beware, for they would then have to take her by force, and someone would have to suffer.

The priests sneered and scoffed and prepared to resist, and also uttered curious shouts, as if calling someone to their assistance.

Meantime, the moon was peeping over the hill. It had not yet risen to the appointed height, but the fatal moment for opening the gates and allowing the people to participate in the sacrifice was very near at hand. Duncan recognised the pressing need of immediate action; once the people were in, the difficulty of their task would be increased a hundredfold.

Already there was a deep ominous murmur beyond the walls like the steady rising of a storm. Around the idol itself there was an increased commotion. It was impossible to see the cause, for the priests obstructed the way, and there was a restless movement to and fro that made it difficult to fix anything for any length of time. While he hesitated which course to take a woman's scream rang through the court. It was a blood-curdling sound -- one that only mad terror or mortal pain could produce. All attempt at argument or persuasion was at an end. Action and action only could do anything for such i: cry. It roused at once in Duncan the elemental instincts that lie more or less strong in every normal man's nature. There was for the moment no more pity or consideration left in his heart for anyone but the woman he loved. He thrust aside the senile priest; fought his way furiously and remorselessly through the crowd of purohitas, panchangis, bhikshas and gurus who threw themselves in his way; and when he had at last got free from them, rushed towards the idol, where he ruthlessly put aside the Deva-dasis in his path, then sprang to lift the drooping girl from the idol. But by an ingenious device her hands had been fastened around the idol's neck and her body so bound that her bosom lay in close contact with the marble bust of the ghastly goddess. With frenzied strength he tore and twisted the bands away. Had he been less excited he might have had some warning of the truth. But he had none. With throbbing heart he lifted her down and gazed into her face; then staggered back in bewilderment. The eyes that looked back into his were not Stella's but Kamalakshi's!

CHAPTER XXX. INSIDE THE GARBHALIAM.

DUNCAN gazed with surprise and consternation into the girl's terror-stricken face.

"Speak, child!" he cried in a terrible suspense. "For the sake of the kindness she showed thee, speak quickly! Where is she?"

Pity mingled with the pain that filled the girl's eyes as she looked up into his own haggard face.

"I do not know, Sahib," she answered in gasps. "He took her away -- "

"Who?"

"The Brahmin whom they call Ramayya."

"When?"

"Just now -- while the priests were trying to keep the Sahibs back from the idol. They brought me into the temple, only a few minutes before, by the western gate. Nakshatram was then tied to the idol as she was when I came to the Sahibs with her message. While the priests were talking with the Sahibs, Ramayya took her from the idol, and Ida, with the help of the other dasis, tied me in her place. They were very angry with me, and said they would kill me as they had meant to kill Nakshatram. And," continued the girl with a sob, "I think they have done as they said they would."

"The fiends!" exclaimed Duncan; "but they shall not go unpunished. We shall yet make them rue the day that this inhuman scheme entered their mad brains. But tell me, child, if thou canst, whither Ramayya went, or the direction he seemed to follow?"

"He seemed to go towards the garbhaliam," answered the girl with a painful effort.

Wrencroff had now succeeded in reaching Duncan's side.

"What is it?" he asked. "Have they hurt her? Good heavens!" he exclaimed in astonishment as he caught sight of the girl's face. "It's the widow girl!"

"Yes; and she seems to be badly hurt."

"Where?" asked Wrencroff, forcing back the lump in his throat, as he watched the visible signs of the girl's internal agony.

"Can't say; but you'll probably be able to help her when we get out of this row. Here, you'd better carry her, while I force a way through them towards the central pagoda. They're closing round us again."

"But where's Stella?"

"Ah, where?" replied Duncan bitterly. "That scoundrel, Ramayya, has been too quick for us again. While we were talking to the high-priest and his satellites he was busy substituting the young widow for Stella, whom he has carried off somewhere in the direction of the temple."

A few minutes only had clasped since the men's entry into the temple court, nevertheless a complete transformation in the scene had taken place during the short time that it had taken them to reach the idol.

The moon had risen some distance above the hills, and was now looking down with a serene expression upon the fermenting tumult below. The temple gopurams, sacred pool, monoliths, statues and choultries seemed to shiver and tremble beneath the silvery halos that surrounded them. Shouts of warning and cries for assistance filled the air; in response, Yellum's followers were streaming into the court, Lingites were dropping down from various parts of the temple walls, where they had evidently been posted to watch the turn of events, an armed group of dacoits were issuing from beneath the banyan tree with the object of barring the way to the main pagoda, and on all sides temple attendants rushed frantically to and fro, urging on their minions to drive back the impious invaders of their sacred temple. Outside, the people were clamouring to be let in. The murmuring of their many voices had now risen to a furious roar. The excitement within the temple walls had informed them that something strange was in progress, and the fanaticism which had been roused up in them during the day was now turning to a fierce outcry against the unusual prohibition which forbade them the free enjoyment of the temple and its privileges.

The priests were pressing in from behind, blows were being exchanged between Lingites and Nagites, the people were growing madder to be in, and, meanwhile, precious moments were passing, while Stella lay somewhere in the power of Ramayya, her hereditary enemy. So the little party went forward: Duncan and Yellum first, then Wrencroff with the other Nagites, to drive back the priests whenever they attempted to drag the young widow from Wrencroff s arms.

On entering the little sanctuary known as the garbhaliam, already described in one of the earlier chapters of this story, Wrencroff proceeded to lay the girl gently upon the stone floor. Of the two things that might well have startled him as he did so, one, which he unfortunately did not see, was the blood-red blot that stained his coat; the other, which drew from him an exclamation that caused Duncan to come quickly to his side, was the displacement of the large slab at the back of the garbhaliam on which the Buddha-like figure of Shiva was sculptured.

The exclamation had not yet died away when a sun-browned sinewy hand moved through the opening. With what purpose -- whether to close or to widen the gap -- they could not guess; nor did Duncan dare to wait to find out. Quick as thought his own hand went out to grasp the other in a grip of steel.

"Now, Guy, for all you're worth force the idol back," he cried. "Every minute's precious."

Into one great heave Wrencroff put the full strength of his lithe muscular body; but the heavy slab and its idol refused to move, and before he could repeat the attempt a terrible thing happened that made his companion stagger backwards.

From the other side of the slab there came a momentary glint of bright steel, followed by a smothered cry; then the hand which Duncan held came away in his grasp -- mercilessly severed from the wrist. Duncan dropped the hand in horror. With fascinated eyes the friends gazed a moment at the appalling object as it lay bleeding on the floor of the dimly lighted chamber; then, with one impulse, they moved forward to the idol, and with a tremendous effort forced it slowly back, thus exposing to themselves one of the grimy vaults in which Colonel Wrencroff had been held a prisoner during five years of indescribable torture.

Duncan gazed into the ghastly dungeon; but he could distinguish nothing in. the shapeless darkness that prevailed there, although some moonbeams filtered, high up overhead, through the open slits that perforated the sides of the central pagoda. So, motioning Wrencroff to stay behind with the girl, he picked up one of the saucers in which a wick was burning before the idol, and proceeded to make his way into the secret vault. The light itself was so feeble that at first it gave him more annoyance than assistance, and for some time after passing through the little opening he could make out nothing but fantastic forms that danced about with every movement that he made. So at last he stood still to get a better light, and to take his bearings. As he did so he thought he heard sounds that were like the echoes of hushed voices and feet retreating in the distance. But he was not sure, for the tumult about the temple was so great that he soon began to think that he had made a mistake. Still, he thought it better to continue to move in the direction from which they seemed to have come. He was not afraid, yet he could not resist the shudders that crept over him as he recalled the Colonel's terrible revelations. This, then, with its nauseous atmosphere and its infernal associations, was the prison in which the old veteran had languished for so many months, and to which he had probably returned soon after writing that pathetic letter. Where was he now? Where was Stella? Where was the priest? And that dreadful hand? -- where was the body to which it belonged? Hardly knowing what to expect or where to look amidst such a maze of mystery and wickedness, he worked his way along the musty chamber, until suddenly, as he peered amongst the pillars and heaps of broken rubbish, he stepped -- afraid to go farther. For there lying on the ground before him was something white that made the blood pulsate madly to his brain. He had found her again, that he knew instantly; but how? Here, in one of the secret vaults of the priest who had sacrificed everything to get her; but abandoned -- apparently cast-off like a toy that was done with -- and still and motionless like one that was dead.

With a fierce movement Duncan brushed aside the red mist that was beginning to blur his eyes. No, no, it was not -- it could not be true! The mere thought of such iniquity was enough to drive the strongest of men stark mad with a homicidal mania. After all, heaven itself had a limit to its long-suffering, even with such infernos as this heathen shrine where wickedness of the vilest kind had long been heaped up to overflowing.

What had they done to her? Had she suffered much?

Her brave little message from the temple rang in his ears, and he bowed his head with closed eyes, and teeth that were fiercely clenched. Though the rose which he loved had been snatched from him, heaven grant that the perfume remained to sweeten the heavy years to come. With trembling hands he placed the light upon the floor, and approached the still form. Her feet and hands were bound by rough thongs, her mouth covered with a silken scarf, yet she lay there calm and peaceful, like an unharmed child, albeit the deathly pallor of her small face. Amidst the soft tresses of her dark hair the jewelled tiara glittered and gleamed with its Shivite pendant; the golden chains and circlets, which she had worn when he first met her, lay upon her bosom; the white folds that trailed along the ground were those in which she had given back the priest his answer; and, as then she had looked like an eastern queen giving forth her ultimatum, so now, in spite of the dust and fallen pedestals, she looked like a queen laid to rest. Swiftly, yet gently, his hands removed the desecrating bonds. He was glad to think that none were there at that moment to look upon her but himself -- not even his friend Guy. This moment would have to carry him through life, and it was sacred -- to him and to her. Again the red mist blurred his vision as he gazed into her white face and noted the long dark lashes that veiled the eyes which had entranced him, and he choked back a sob as he took her hands in his and kissed them. Then -- he was not sure -- but he looked up in wonder; and again he was not sure. It might have been the blur upon his sight, or it might be that his mind had begun to wander: he had heard a sigh, or thought he had, and on looking up saw -- not eyes closely veiled by long dark lashes -- but two beautiful stars, softly glowing with wonder and with love.

Nay, more; for while he still doubted the evidence of his senses, two soft arms slipped round his neck, and a voice, sweeter than all the music he had ever heard, murmured in his ear: "Ah, thou hast come, dear one, at last. I knew thou wouldst come back to me if it were possible for thee to do so; but my heart had grown heavy with fear lest some harm had befallen thee, and when Ramayya carried me into this place I -- " And with a shudder the girl clung more closely to him, and hid her face upon his shoulder.

Once again she felt his strong arms encircle her in that pulsating embrace that seemed to absorb her own personality into his in its fierce desire to protect her from all harm. "Poor little girl!" he said with great tenderness. "Poor little Stella!"

"Stella!" she repeated slowly, with the faintest suggestion of a lisp, as she lifted her head and looked at him in wonder. "Stella -- what is that Stella which rings in my ears like something that will never be forgotten?"

"Stella!" he repeated slowly, unable to follow the train of her thoughts; "it is our word for Nakshatram. Thy parents called thee so when thou wert a child."

"Aye, that is why Naga called 'Stella' when they were taking him away. I did not understand it, for he has never spoken it before, though he has taught me many words such as the Maharaja speaks."

"Thou hast seen Naga, then?" asked Duncan.

"Yes"; and as she answered he felt the soft clinging form tremble again at the memory of something terrible. "When Ramayya brought me to this place, there were others here: the temple Sannyasi and two with torches in their hands, like forest-dwellers. Suddenly from the place where they were standing there was a noise like the snapping of a chain, and Naga, 'The Servant of the Dead,' rushed at Ramayya, and tried to snatch me from his arms. In a moment there was a dreadful struggle, but Naga at last got free and ran towards the garbhaliam. The Sannyasi and the two forest men followed him, but Ramayya lay on the ground like one hurt. After a little time they came back, and I heard Naga moaning and saying: 'Stella! Stella!'"

"Go on, dear, tell me what followed," said Duncan hoarsely, as she stopped and drew in her breath quickly.

"The torches had gone out, and it was now quite dark. I could not see anything. I could only hear them dragging Naga along. I grew more frightened, and in my fear I think I called out: 'Naga, Naga, come back!' Whatever it was I said he must have heard my voice, for he cried back piteously: 'Stella, my child, Stella! God help thee. I cannot!' After that I do not remember. His cry was so hopelessly sad that it seemed to turn my heart quite cold. I could bear no more. When I opened my eyes again it was to find my hands in thine, and my fear gone."

It was Duncan's turn to shudder. That pleading, mangled hand upon the floor of the garbhaliam -- he knew now whose it was, and with unspeakable sorrow realised that he himself had been made an unwilling instrument in the mutilation of the brave old Colonel. What would he not have willingly suffered to save the heroic parent from the misery of that last misfortune? And now where was he? There was certainly no trace of him in the vault. Without other assistance, and with Stella with him, it would be impossible to find him, and unwise to try to do so.

"Come," he said gently; "we must get out of this before they begin to move again. They will not be long in finding some new means of wickedness. If it is possible we will get help and look for Naga. There are still troubles before us, dear, but thou wilt trust thyself to me, wilt thou not, and be as brave as thou hast been?"

Her eyes looked into his, shining softly with the unbounded trust and love she gave him, as she answered:

"I fear nothing now -- not even death -- so long as thou wilt keep me near thee."

CHAPTER XXXI. NEOPHYTE NO LONGER.

WE must return to the garbhaliam, where the problem of life was working to a much less felicitous solution.

Child as she was in years, Kamalakshi was nevertheless a woman in experience, for she had learnt things which no child at her age ought ever to have seen or heard. Within the fourteen years of her earthly existence she had stood amidst the unveiled mysteries of life, disease and death -- she had been orphaned, married, widowed -- and then, with the supreme callousness of pantheistic thought, she had been handed over to the inexpressible but not altogether unknown needs of the temple. What else remained? To what summum bonum could she look forward with joy or hope? Death, perhaps, with its peace and oblivion! But even that her creed denied her. For sacrosanct as she might be as a dasi, her position as such was, nevertheless, on so low a physical plane that innumerable births would be necessary to wipe out its stigma.

Of all this Kamalakshi was dimly conscious as she lay in the garbhaliam trying to bear her pain. And Wrencroff knelt near by her, wondering, pitying, and in no small distress; for he saw no way of bringing relief to the brave little widow-girl who had risked so much for the sake of his newly discovered cousin Stella.

Not till Duncan had disappeared into the vault had he noticed the red streak across his hand and the damp spot upon his coat. Startled at the sight, almost incredulous, he had hastily given up his idea of following Duncan, and had gone back to see what had happened to her.

She was as he had placed her when they first entered the little shrine -- stretched upon the marble flags, her head resting upon her left arm, her right hand upon her breast. She was moaning like a sick child, and he tried to soothe her, but failed. He took off his coat and made a pad of it for her head, and as he tried to arrange it he saw the big red blot upon the left side of her white sari, and having sought and found the cause, he stormed at the dasis for being worthy daughters of their mother she-devil. But his anger came and went for what it was worth -- that is, nothing -- and his fierce invectives were thrown away. It was a religion run mad that was facing him, not an incident, and Durga, the crowned head of it, was guiding its course, and, though he was not aware of it, was looking down with a malignant smile upon the pair who had invaded her lord's sanctuary.

Outside, in the temple court, the goddess was no doubt revelling in the destruction going on around her canopied icon and along the colonnade that ran to the temple steps, but here -- in the Maha-Shivcfs holy of holies -- was the vicarious substitute of her long-promised victim, and there was a special vindictive delight in the way in which she was weaving her black spell over the rebellious neophyte. The white warrior's child might owe her neither fealty, nor service, nor love, and by the strength of her inherent ideals and antipathies might be able to resist her influence; but not so with this eastern child. The very flow of her blood -- the blood of those who had served the goddess for generations -- her religious habits, her innate instincts, her superstitious vows, her past participation in the festivals, would all tend to bring her into subjection, and the goddess had no intention of abating one jot of the debt due from such close alliance. Wrencroff did not quite realise all this; nor did he fully understand the deep subtlety of the evil already done. Though the girl's beauty was only part of the environment to which she belonged, yet in Wrencroff's mind she was unconsciously a distinct entity apart from it. All he saw in her was a young, defenceless girl suffering from an iniquitous outrage, and with all the strength of his chivalrous manhood he despised and hated all that went to make such a thing possible -- never thinking that the girl herself might feel differently about the things to which she belonged, till he saw her gaze past and beyond him with an uncanny look that made him shudder. It was a curious, transient stare, gone almost before he had time to mark it; for a paroxysm of agony seized her at that moment, and she closed her eyes in her effort to overcome it. But he felt sure he had not been mistaken -- abject fear, adoring love, awakening wonder, a wild resolution were summed up in that one glance. What did it mean? Surely not the conclusion that forced itself upon his unwilling mind -- such a thing was too pitiful to accept.

Yet, as the spasm passed away, she opened her eyes again, and, with the unreasonable persistency of a psychopathic patient, permitted her gaze to travel slowly back to the same place, where she let it rest, fascinated. Then she laughed softly -- a ghastly, incongruous laugh. Wrencroff followed her gaze, and, for the first time, saw the Durga idol, with its two burning tapers -- a dirty, coarse image that conveyed nothing to him but crude art and primitive instincts.

But not so with Kamalakshi; for her it was a living incarnation of Jagan-Matha -- the mother of the world -- beckoning her to surrender herself. So she laughed again, murmuring "Kali-amma -- amma!" and after that she laughed again, only much louder; then, suddenly, she burst forth into a shriek, and before Wrencroff had realised her intention she had flung herself across the garbhaliam to the feet of the goddess, pulling her hair out in handfuls, and striving to dash her head against the senseless stone.

Meanwhile, the idol seemed to look down upon her with the cold indifference of one who had expected it.

Wrencroff did his best to hold her back from hurting herself; but she fought him off with incredible strength, screaming hysterically, and crying upon the goddess to take her.

The young shrinking widow, the unwilling neophyte, was gone, and in her place was a distracted, raving woman possessed with the devil Durga -- a woman whose one object was to immolate herself at the feet of the goddess.

And Ida, the dasi, with her evil knowledge, had intended that it should be so.

Partly exhausted by her frantic efforts, Kamalakshi after some time lay passive beneath Wrencroff's grasp; but the sudden change in her mood lasted hardly more than a few seconds, and she was beginning to struggle again when suddenly the wild look died out of her face, and, slipping back quietly into his arms, she listened for a while. Wrencroff also listened, wondering whether he, too, were falling a victim to some mysterious glamour of the idol; for they had heard a sound -- a wonderfully sweet sound, like the whispering voice of a mother speaking in soothing tones to her child.

Wrencroff looked up sharply at the image; but it was cold and expressionless as before. Then came the voice again, low and clear, thrilling with love as it murmured: "Kamalakshi! -- Kamalakshi!"

And there, as they turned their eyes towards the entrance of the vault, stood a vision -- the vision of a woman beautiful in form and features, whose glowing eyes seemed to fill the little chamber with a new light.

Kamalakshi struggled no longer. The temporary insanity, brought about by an insidious poison, had fled from her brain before the presence of this dazzling vision. With a low cry of joy she held out her hands to Stella, who had crossed the garbhaliam and taken her into her own arms before Wrencroff had recovered from his surprise.

Wrencroff looked on in speechless wonder, until Duncan touched him on the shoulder.

"So that is Stella, the Colonel's long-lost daughter -- and my cousin," he said to the latter, musingly.

"Yes, Guy," answered Duncan with a glad note in his voice as he placed his hand kindly on the other's shoulder. "She's a new link between you and me. Thank God we were in time! A few minutes more and -- ah! you can guess what it would have meant for me if we had arrived too late."

"Yes, old fellow, I think I can understand," replied Wrencroff, "and now you've found her -- ?" he added, smiling.

"I'll keep her safe -- in spite of all this!" answered Duncan quietly; and as he spoke his strong jaw squared sharply, and a new light came into his eyes that might have caused even Ramayya to stay his hand a moment in order to count the cost.

"Good old Percy! You've only got what you deserve, but you're a lucky beggar all the same. I thought at first that you had simply been captivated by an ordinary good-looking girl under romantic conditions. But no; she is remarkably beautiful. And I congratulate you -- my newly-found cousin also."

"What has happened to the little widow?" asked Duncan, pointing, with a look of surprise, to the blood upon her sari.

"Oh, some devilry in connection with that miserable goddess under the canopy. She is badly hurt, and I think they've practised upon her what we should call nowadays injection -- only in a brutal way. You've seen women seized, as they say, by the goddess during the festival, well! -- that is what was happening to her just now when you appeared on the scene. Stella's influence has in some curious way calmed her for the moment, but I am afraid the fit will soon return."

"Can't something be done for her?" asked Duncan.

"Not much, I fear, while we are cooped up in this hole. I must, however, have some water, and I'm going now to try to get some."

"How?" in surprise.

"There's a small pot with rice in it, which has evidently been placed here as an offering to the goddess. I'm going to take that to fill it at the pool."

"Good heavens, man! Look! -- you can't even get through the doorway."

"I'm going to try, all the same," said WrencrofF with determination, and as he spoke, he took up the little brass pot and began to work his way through the crowd of Nagites, who had been steadily driven back till they were now blocked in a seething mass upon the steps that led from the temple door down to the pool.

For, while they had been forcing back the dacoits along the colonnade, a body of Lingites had succeeded in getting round the far side of the pool and were now attacking them from behind, in much the same way as the Nagites themselves had surprised the dacoits.

The court was now ringing with groans, shrieks, curses and threats of vengeance; but beyond the walls the deep rumble of the people's voices had suddenly died away into a spasmodic murmur of bewildered fear.

Then came the beginning of the end.

With a fierce roar the dacoits broke through the Nagites, forcing them back into the Lingites behind, and driving them into the pool, until at last an open space was left around the door of the garbhaliam.

At the foot of the steps Wrencroff was filling his pot. Duncan saw his danger of being cut off, and called to him to come back before it was too late; for there was an ancient door to the shrine and with that closed it might be possible to withstand an indefinite siege. But the warning had hardly left his lips when the dacoits, with the Rajput at their head, sprang towards the shrine. With horror Duncan realised that he had left his revolver in the vault while helping Stella through the entrance. He called to Stella to close the door, and stepped out on to the steps. A moment's parley might save the position and give Wrencroff time to get back. But the lieutenant had no intention of giving the least quarter. These two Englishmen knew too much and held too many lives in their hands to be permitted to leave the temple alive. With a mocking laugh he waved back his men and raised his sword, as if he himself would settle the account once and for all; but his sword rang with a clash upon the marble floor. Yellum the Nagite had seen his intention and had sprung upon him from behind a pillar -- the next moment the two men were rolling down the temple steps locked in a fierce embrace.

Duncan picked up the fallen sword. He was an adept at fencing. It had been a loved pastime with him in his younger days, and the very touch of the sword filled him with an immense pleasure as he now faced the onrush of the furious dacoits. Fortunately that portion of the colonnade directly above the steps was both small and narrow, so that as he stood with his back to the door of the garbhaliam not more than two, or three at the most, could attack him at the same time. First one, then another, thrust at him with their weapons, but, with a little scornful laugh, he parried all their blows.

"No, no, you rascal!" he jeered, as a black-browed ruffian crept along the flags with a knife in his hand and an evil thrust in his mind. "That is a dirty trick. So take that as a lesson." And the man rolled away, yelling, with an open wound in his shoulder.

"And that's for you -- and you! -- and you!" he cried mockingly, as he drove three men back, one after the other, each with a wound, till at last the way was clear again for his friend, who had just managed to avoid the dacoit gun intended to cut short his career.

"That was splendid, Percy!" cried WrencrofT enthusiastically as he reached Duncan's side. "It reminds me of the time when you challenged a dozen of us to drive you off the school platform with singlesticks."

"Yes; it does rather," answered Duncan, smiling at the memory of his boyish exploits. "Have you got your revolver, Guy?"

"Yes!"

"That's fortunate. I left mine in the vault by mistake. We'll probably need yours directly, when they have recovered a little. But I think the best way to make a successful resistance is for us to slip inside and take our chance there. The Nagites -- "

His sentence was never completed; for at that moment an event took place that completely changed the course of their fortunes: there was a dull, lurid flash, followed by a tremendous uproar, and when they looked across the temple court they could hardly believe the evidence of their eyes, for part of the wall on the far side of the pool seemed to be crumbling in like the collapse of a pack of cards.

"Steady, there!" cried a clear, commanding voice. "Hold back a minute or you will have that gopuram on the top of you, if you're not careful! Now, go ahead! -- Capture the dacoits alive if you can -- if not send them all to blazes!"

As the occupants of the court turned their eyes in the direction of the sound, a body of white uniforms and a line of gleaming bayonets streamed through the breach that had been made in the temple wall, and began to move along the eastern side of the court towards the central pagoda. In a moment wild confusion reigned throughout the whole of the temple court: Lingites, priests, dasis, and dacoits, seized with sudden panic, were falling over each other in their mad struggle to get away from the unlucky shrine and its dangerous precincts.

The main object of the police was, if possible, to surround and capture the dacoits; but their purpose was partly frustrated by the seething mass of Lingites and Nagites between the eastern wall and the temple, for the Lingites, seeing the police approach, were fighting desperately to break through the Nagites, who, however, had it all their own way now that the dacoits had abandoned the struggle.

Lloyd, the District Officer, sword in hand, was at the head of his men as they swept round the eastern side of the sacred pool. Chirtha, the guide, at the last point of exhaustion, was at his side rapidly explaining that a large number of the men engaged in the hand-to-hand fight near the temple steps were his brother tribesmen who had been set to guard the Collector Sahib. This was a difficulty which the Superintendent had not foreseen in choosing the eastern side as his point of attack and the quickest way of reaching Duncan, whose critical position on the steps had been the first thing to attract his attention. To allow his men to continue the charge, would, he immediately saw, involve the indiscriminate slaughter of some of the brave Nagites, whom it was impossible to distinguish from their enemies the Lingites. So he gave a sharp order to halt, and then pointing to an oblong space between two temple buildings asked Chirtha to tell his fellow tribesmen to separate themselves if possible from the Lingites, and to drive the latter between the two buildings. Chirtha gave the Nagite signal, then the Superintendent's advice. The Lingites heard and understood, and in their panic a few of them threw themselves into the pool and swam away to other parts of the court; but, between the Nagite spears and regulation bayonets the majority of the unfortunate Lingites were soon cooped up in the specified cul-de-sac.

This of course had taken some little time to accomplish, and so by the time Lloyd reached the temple steps he was not a little disappointed to find that the dacoits who had surrounded Duncan, and the crowd that had filled the space about the infamous idol, had made good their escape by a number of means best known to themselves.

"Well, Duncan," he said quizzically, when he had reached the part of the steps where Percy was standing, "how are you? You seem to have been having an exciting time -- not to mention a narrow escape."

"Yes," answered Duncan, smiling. "We've been having rather warm work, and I'm very glad that you've come. I don't think that we could have held out much longer."

"I got your letter at the tent," said the Superintendent to Duncan, when they had shaken hands. "Is it really true that there is a girl shut up in the temple?"

"Yes," replied Duncan. "You've heard the story, I believe, of a Colonel who lived about here some years ago, and built for himself a bungalow on one of the plateaux. His wife, you may remember, was killed, and his child was carried off -- by the priests, some said. The Colonel also was supposed to have been killed, but, as it turns out, he recovered from his wounds, and has been living ever since under the disguise of a native of these hills in the hope of finding out the whereabouts of his child. Under the pretence of dedicating this child to the goddess as a dasi, his daughter, as the child turns out to be, was recently brought to the temple -- the real intention being, however, to offer her as a sort of sacrifice in order to remove the pollution from the temple which the father is supposed to have caused by carrying off her mother from a suttee ceremony. The Colonel had meanwhile discovered that it was his daughter whom they were intending to dedicate, and had come here to try to rescue her with the help of one of the hill-tribes that he had befriended in days gone by. By a strange coincidence, Wrencroff, who is related to the Colonel, and I were also on the spot, though we did not learn till it was too late the truth about the Colonel and his presence in the neighbourhood -- "

"And now?" asked Lloyd, deeply interested.

"The daughter is safe -- in there!" replied Duncan, pointing towards the half-opened door of the garbhaliam.

"And the Colonel?"

"Ah! -- somewhere in the temple."

"A prisoner?"

"Yes; and seriously wounded."

"Whew!" whistled Lloyd. "We'd better see to that at once."

"What about our much desired friend, the Rajput?" he continued, after giving some orders to a group of men, who came up to him at that moment.

"He was here a moment ago, just before the wall was blown up. Ah! that's Yellum and Chirtha, in the pool -- and they have got him between them, but he is giving them a little trouble. He is wounded or he'd probably be giving them more."

As Duncan had said, the two brothers were struggling in the water with the lieutenant of dacoits, who was making a fierce fight of it to the last. But the well-deserved fate of the outlaw was sealed. A circle of Nagites surrounded him with spears ready to deal with the miscreant should he escape from the hands of their chiefs.

The two brothers, however, at last succeeded in getting him up the steps and placing him before Duncan and Lloyd.

"Oh, so you are the scoundrel we've been looking for so long," remarked the latter, looking at him critically. "You're not a bad specimen, but you've misused your gifts, my friend."

The dacoit did not understand, but he guessed that sarcasm and disapproval lay behind the European's speech. His lip curled in scorn and his eyes glared cruelly as he looked the youthful officer up and down for a moment; then he looked away in stoical indifference.

"My own inclination," continued Lloyd to Duncan, "is to hang him up on the temple gate as a warning to others. That's what they did with such individuals until recently; "but," he continued with a gesture that disclaimed responsibility for the newer methods, "I suppose that's not quite in order now."

"No, I'm afraid not," replied Duncan, smiling. "We are learning to go more slowly nowadays. The old method was impressive but not always satisfactory."

"Here, Inspector," called Lloyd to a fine-looking Mohammedan. "Take this man and fasten him up securely, and get three or four constables to help you to look after him."

At this moment the door of the garbhaliam was thrown wide open, and Wrencroff came out looking white and haggard. Duncan noticed the change that had taken place in his friend's face, and wondered. "Oh," he said, turning to Lloyd, "you haven't met Wrencroff yet, have you? Let me introduce you to each other."

Lloyd held out his hand to the doctor.

"I've heard so often about you from Duncan," he said with a smile, "that it seems as if we knew each other already. Still, I'm very glad indeed of this opportunity of making your acquaintance -- in the flesh."

"It's kind of you to say so," answered Wrencroff. "I, indeed, have every reason to be glad that we have had an opportunity of meeting -- especially under the circumstances," he added, laughingly including the temple with a motion of his hand.

"How's the widow-girl," asked Duncan.

"Going, I fear -- quickly," answered Wrencroff.

"Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. She is a brave little girl."

"It's, perhaps, just as well," remarked Wrencroff quietly. "She'll probably leave the world with less bitterness than she would do a few years hence."

"It's a young widow," said Duncan in explanation to Lloyd, who had not yet understood the reference. "When the priests found that they were going to lose the Colonel's daughter as a victim for their sacrifice, they retaliated by trying to offer this girl as a substitute as she had helped the other to escape. We rescued her, but, I fear, not to much purpose. She was badly hurt and -- well -- you heard what Wrencroff said just now."

"What is it they've done to her?" asked Lloyd, turning towards Wrencroff. "Do you know?"

"Yes; that is to say -- partly! One has to fill in the gaps," answered Wrencroff slowly, as he turned, and, with an angry light in his eyes, pointed towards the idol of Durga standing in the moonlit space between the two colonnades. "She says that after they had taken away the Colonel's daughter they placed her against the idol so that her bosom rested on the bust, bound so tightly that she could not even move. When they had done this the dasis belonging to the temple began to taunt her with having betrayed them to the Circar, and told her that she was to receive an embrace from the goddess that would make her a faithful dasi for the rest of her life. After that it seemed to her as if the bust of the idol pressed up against her bosom and pierced it. There is evidently something devilishly ingenious about the upper part of the idol, for she has two large punctures -- one over the heart and one through the right lung, and both her breast and sari show traces of some poisonous substance."

The door of the shrine being now open it was possible to see what was going on within. The small wicks in the primitive saucers were flickering feebly; but the scene within was vivid enough to leave an indelible impression upon the minds of the men who saw it. Stella, one knee on the floor -- wholly unconscious of the fact that her profile stood out sharp and clear like a beautiful cameo set in the plaque of darkness behind -- was looking down with wondrous pity in her eyes, and two diamond-like tears on her dark lashes, into the face of the neophyte who was reclining with her head pillowed against her bosom. The child was making a pitiful effort to speak, and as the three men drew near and listened they heard her say in a weak voice:

"It was not the goddess, then, Nakshatram?"

"No, little one," was the murmured reply.

"There is no such goddess as this terrible Durga, is there?"

"No, Kamalakshi. It is the foolish imagination of those who do not know the real nature of God."

"But there is a God, amma, is there not?" persisted the child.

"Yes, child. A God -- holy -- wise -- good. Not wicked, like these gods and goddesses."

"How dost thou know that it is so, Nakshatram?"

"There is one who has taught me so since I was a little child. I also know it from my own heart."

"And I, Nakshatram, shall I see this God -- I who have not known about Him until now?"

"Yes, little one."

"And He will be kind to me?" she asked wistfully.

"He will love thee, child, for thou dost deserve it; and thou shalt be happy -- happier than thou couldst have been here."

The dying girl sighed softly and lay for a time without speaking.

"Nakshatram!" she said a little later, without opening her eyes.

"I am here, amma."

"I am not afraid now," came in a weak voice. "I think God is taking care of me already. It would have been hard to live -- a widow, and in the temple.

I was afraid of the goddess -- and Ida, but now!"

And the girl snuggled like a sleepy child nearer to the breast that supported her, breathed softly like the faintest of breezes, and then passed into eternity.

Stella, who had seen death more than once amongst the young behind the purdah, placed the dead girl gently upon the marble flags, and reverently covered the child's face with her sari.

Silently the three men turned away, and gazed down into the shimmering pool.

"What a rotten shame!" said Lloyd, after a while, as if one had been placing a fact before him.

"Yes," answered Duncan after a pause, "and yet I suppose it will take them fully a century to see it."

Wrencroff said nothing. There was a stinging pain in his eyes, and a spasmodic grip on his throat that would have prevented him from speaking even if he had wished to do so. He was remorselessly engaged in sealing down for ever, in the mental lumber-room of painful things, his brief acquaintance with Kamalakshi, the nautch neophyte.

"And the other; so she is the Colonel's daughter, is she?" said Lloyd thoughtfully, as if he were still pondering over the scene. "She is very beautiful."

"Yes, that is Colonel Wrencroff's daughter -- and my future wife," said Duncan quietly.

Lloyd glanced up at him in astonishment, so that Duncan could not forbear laughing at his incredulous gaze.

"It's true, nevertheless," he said, answering the unspoken question.

"By Jove!" exclaimed the other. "I congratulate you, Duncan -- heartily. Your wife will be a remarkable woman, and, unless I'm grievously mistaken, is destined to make a great stir in the world."

CHAPTER XXXII. NEW PLOTS.

MORN came at last. The silver paleness of the night -- together with its romantic fantasies and its dangerous uncertainties -- imperceptibly passed into fuller light. A rosy blush, speckled with countless vapoury patches, was stealing over the sky. A cool, refreshing breeze was blowing across the court where night had hung heavy with oppressive heat and dread possibilities. Men, standing at the posts where they had stood all night long, shook off the drowsiness which had crept over their senses and stretched themselves under the touch of the new life which dawn imparts.

In the radiating light of the rising sun the ancient temple stood, imposing and suggestive, but giving no hint at the hidden forces which had turned a religious sanctuary into a den of vice, and proffering no warning of the plots which were even now being hatched within its walls for the future misery of those who had deprived a goddess of her due.

Near the breach in the court wall half a dozen men in bright turbans and white uniform, somewhat soiled, stood patiently resting on their rifles -- a large number guarded the entrance to the cul-de-sac and lined the western colonnade, where a batch of prisoners, mostly wounded Lingites, were lying -- others, in twos and threes, stood or moved about as sentinels in different parts of the court. Altogether there were nearly thirty of them -- big, well-set, smart-looking men of various castes and creeds, but all of them a credit to their selection and training. There had been little for them to do during the night. Their bright bayonets had been sufficiently impressive to overawe the people and prevent them from attempting any serious form of violence. Soon after the arrival of Lloyd and his men, and before the seriousness of the position had been fully grasped by the greater portion of the people, there had been a few desultory scrimmages when the bolder and more fanatical had tried to force a way into the temple court; but the determined aspect of the police had soon cooled their ardour and made them think better of their rashness. After that, the unstable enthusiasm of the day, produced by the insidious methods of the temple sycophants, had gradually subsided into sullenness. The pilgrims, disappointed in their expectations, worn out by their exertions and somewhat frightened by the turn of events, had settled down to wait for further developments, and had watched and waited till sleep had mercifully wrapped their senses in the dreamless oblivion of physical and mental fatigue.

Dawn, when it came, found not a few of their places empty. They were landowners, many of them, well-to-do, with much to lose and little desire to lose it. As far as they were behind the ways and thoughts of the cities, they had sufficient knowledge to know that the Kali-yuga, if not done away with for ever, was at least assuming a phase vastly different from that which it had borne up till now; and that customs once lawful to their grandparents were now, and that not altogether without reason, forbidden to their parents' children. So, when sleep had taken the edge off their fanaticism, a strong sense of self-preservation had pointed to flight as the surest way of avoiding an undesirable inquiry into things which they could neither intellectually explain nor legitimately defend.

The inner circles of temple satellites had long before this disappeared from the neighbourhood of the temple and its tope. Most of the priests, dasis and dacoits, who had dispersed with such extraordinary suddenness upon the appearance of the police, were now far away in the hills, or hiding in the purdahed houses of the Agraharam. Yet they were not all gone. Inside the gruesome chamber in which we have twice already seen the esoteric section of the Shivites performing their mystical rites there was at this moment another dark ceremony in progress -- a ceremony destined to bring forth much evil fruit in the shape of misery and misfortunes to all those who, in later years, consciously or unconsciously interfered in any way with the fulfilment of the vow which they were now making in the name of the bloodthirsty goddess.

Two small lights near the idol were burning sufficiently well to reveal Ramayya squatting cross-legged in front of the goddess, and glaring grimly through one eye -- the left being covered over with a cloth -- at a small group of figures prostrated full length upon the ground before him. Three of those prostrated there were not only closely connected with Ramayya by blood ties, but were also fanatical Shishyas of his Tantric teaching; the others we are already acquainted with. One was Ida, and she was saying:

"May thy glory be great, Lord of the Shivite Brahmins!"

"Namaskaram, Maha-Guru!" murmured the Sann-yasi, who was another.

"Dandam, swami -- dan dam, swami!" exclaimed the young acolyte who had carried the tray with the sympathetic dummies for the magical rite.

"Ah," said Ramayya, turning his one eye suddenly upon the acolyte, "thou art sure he was dead?"

"Yes, swami. I saw the great priest thy brother lift up his hands to the idol when the Circar men entered the temple. For a little while he stood so, calling upon Kali to appear and drive out the men who were polluting her puja. Then he gave one cry and fell at the feet of the goddess. When we looked at him he was quite dead. Seeing the high-priest was dead the others hurried away from the temple. I and these, however, came hither to tell thee that thou wert high-priest at last; but we found the Sannyasi trying to bring thee back to life, for thou hadst been stricken, and for many hours we feared thy spirit would not return to thy body. So we did puja and offered neivedyam to thy body, desiring thee to come back, and -- hail, swami, hail! -- thou hast heard our prayers and returned."

"Spake I not truly, Ramayya, when I told thee that thou wouldst reign soon?" said the temple dan triumphantly, as she rose to her feet.

"Aye, sister, and, if I mistook not thy words, thou also saidst 'long'."

"'Tis true, Lord Priest. Thy reign shall be long -- perchance, even longer than thy brother's."

"Thou art, indeed, a faithful dost, Ida," answered the temple priest, with a leer that made his distorted face more horrible still.

"And thou wilt keep thy promise?" asked the dasi quietly.

"Keep it?" he exclaimed fiercely. "Aye, and more than keep it -- we will renew the vow here before the goddess. Thy fires have told thee that the Shivite tiara is a powerful talisman against danger and death -- thou shalt have it. Nakshatram thou wouldst have delivered into thy hands -- we will give her to thee alive or dead. As for the Collector and his friends -- ho, ho! thou shalt help us to weave such a web around their fates that while living they will wish for death, while dying they will wish to live, when dead they shall writhe in the consciousness that their spirits are in our power to use for their own misery and for the ruin of those whom they would wish to serve. Are ye ready to take the vow?" he added after a moment's pause.

"Aye, aye -- we are ready?" cried the chorus of voices.

"Durga's vengeance will fall on those who fail."

"We know it," was the prompt reply.

"And you will obey in all things -- whatever the nature of the Srimukams?"

"In all things."

"To the loss of caste?"

"We will forget our caste if the mandate of our high-priest require it of us."

"To the loss of wealth?"

"Aye -- that also," cried five voices, the Sannyasi's alone being silent.

"What wealth can there be when one's religion is defiled by unbelievers?" asked one of the shishyas contemptuously.

"Who can be without wealth that carries out Durga's will?" suggested another.

"To death?" demanded the raucous voice of the reprobate hierarch.

"To death!" was the unanimous reply.

"Let us then swear to the goddess!" said Ramayya, rising and facing the idol.

"Listen to us O Kali, Jagan-Matha, Mother of the world!" he cried, lifting up his arms. "Look down upon this thy shrine, which t for the second time has been defiled by thine enemies, and hearken to our words. We are thy servants and we would serve thee -- and thee only. Yet those who are stronger than we, have reviled thee and taken away the glory of thy name. Nevertheless they shall not go free, for we thy servants shall follow on their heels. Whither they go, we also shall go. Their pleasure we will turn to sorrow, their honour we will turn to shame. The glory of their daughters shall be brought low, their sons shall be a curse and no blessing to them. That which they delight in shall bear a canker, and that which they love shall be utterly taken away from them. Hearken, O Kali! and give thy servants wisdom and strength to perform that which they now swear to thee. Let thy presence guide and protect us so that neither pain, nor troubles, nor danger may tempt us from our task, or wear out the patience that we shall need.

"It may be, O mother, that I thy servant may not return; for I must be an exile for many years from the temple till that which hath happened is forgotten. But, if so -- if I and these thy other servants here are overtaken by death ere we accomplish that which we have sworn to undertake -- grant, at least, that we may be so reincarnated that we may accomplish in the next life that which we shall have left undone in this! Behold we seal our vow on thy lips with our blood!"

And Ramayya, having taken a knife from the acolyte, cut his thumb and pressed the flowing blood upon the lips of the idol. The Sannyasi, who was the last to follow his example, had not yet used the knife when all in the chamber were startled by a curious noise, as if something were scratching at the wall. With great presence of mind Ida stepped up to the idol and blew out the lights. A little later, during a breathless silence, the sound of voices could be plainly heard, to the great astonishment of those who thought themselves hidden in inviolable secrecy.

"Yes; this is it all right, Lloyd," Duncan's voice was saying. "When we looked in the other night there were lights burning, so we were able to see the place. It's too dark now to see anything. The Colonel said it was one of the secret chambers of the temple, and I feel sure that it's connected by some secret means with the vault behind the garbhaliam."

"Let me see," asked Lloyd, trying to peer through the opening. "No: one can't see much in there, but one can smell it. It's like the vault -- musty. By Jove!" he exclaimed as he was about to turn away, "I heard a noise, I believe -- like a cough or a sigh."

The men listened intently, but heard nothing.

"It may be the old man," suggested Duncan. "Wrencroff -- Colonel Wrencroff -- are you there?" he called through the opening, but only the ghostly echo of his own voice came back.

"I may have been mistaken," said Lloyd thoughtfully, "or it may have been a rat or some other animal. However, we'll find out the entrance to that place somehow or other, and search every other corner of the building also. You can rely upon us to do everything humanly possible to find some clue to his whereabouts or proof of his death."

"Have you drawn any conclusions as to the chances of his being alive or dead?" asked Duncan, as he put the stone back into its position in the wall.

"Well;" answered Lloyd slowly. "It's difficult to say. The chances I should think are about equal. His disappearance is in favour of his being alive; on the other hand if they have discovered his identity, alive or dead, they will do their best, I fancy, to keep him out of our hands."

"Yes; I think that's true," agreed Duncan. "If he survives that dreadful mutilation it will probably be a struggle between their desire for revenge and their sense of self-preservation. With fanatics of this sort the latter hasn't, I have found, very much restraining influence -- but they may, out of fear for their temple, hold him back as a sort of ransom."

So, somewhat discouraged by their repeated failures to find some trace of the Colonel, the two men left the spot where, without the least suspicion of the truth, they had stood within three or four yards of the principal actors of this long-drawn out tragedy -- in which the lives of both and, some years later, the death of one were to be involved -- and, having worked their way through the tangled growth on the south side of the temple, re-entered the temple court by the western gate.

WrencrofT and Stella, intensely interested in exchanging the main outlines of their past, were seated on the temple steps. The long dark lashes of the latter were glistening with tears, for Wrencroff had been telling her as gently as possible the truth about "Naga, the Servant of the Dead," and had prepared her for the worst lest Duncan and Lloyd should have found the brave old man already beyond their assistance.

"Well?" he asked, looking up questioningly as they approached.

"Nothing," answered Duncan despondently.

"I'm sorry to hear that," replied Wrencrorf, looking away quickly to hide the weakness that brought a mist across his vision.

"What's to be our next move?" he asked, after a pause that gave him time to suppress the choking sensation that gripped his throat at the thought of the helplessness of the man who had dared and suffered so much for the sake of the girl sitting at his side.

"That's for Duncan to decide," remarked Lloyd. "For my own part the best way, I think, would be for you two to take Miss Wrencroff as soon as possible to head-quarters. Her presence here is likely to complicate matters. And, if you agree with me on that, the next best thing is to start at once so as to get away from the forest before dark. I can let you have half a dozen men or more if you like -- you can send back what you don't want when you have shaken off the dust of the Agraharam. It's as well to give that dangerous nest as wide a berth as possible."

"And the poor old Colonel?" suggested Wrencroff. "I shall feel like deserting him, if I leave the place before he is found."

"Yes, I can quite understand that; but then it's the smaller of two evils. And you will know that nothing more could possibly be done than what we are doing. Moreover, I'll keep you posted with news, and if we discover nothing, it will still be possible for you to come back in three or four days' time to try what you can do."

"Well, that is so," agreed Wrencroff reluctantly. "What is the latest we should start?"

"Not later than ten, I think."

"That will give us three or four hours to look round again," said Wrencroff, brightening up a little.

"Yes, come along, and we'll see what we can do while they are getting breakfast ready. Duncan," continued Lloyd with a sparkle of mischief in his eyes, "will, no doubt, be able to entertain Miss Wrencroff till we return."

Duncan laughed quietly as he took Wrencroff's place on the steps.

"Poor little girl," he murmured softly, marking the tiny diamonds that still clung to Stella's dark lashes, while his big strong hand closed tightly over the little white one by his side. "Thou art sad."

The little hand nestled closer to his grasp.

"It is for Naga -- my father!"

"Ah, thy kinsman hath told thee -- all?"

She bent her head to tell him that it was so. She did not weep. The purdah had taught her to bury her griefs deep in her heart. And so they sat, her little hand nestling in his and her sorrow losing its poignancy in his love, until her cousin and Lloyd returned from another fruitless search.

By the time they came breakfast was ready; and, in spite of their disappointment, the men ate it with a will, for they were very hungry; but upon Stella they pressed nothing but milk and fruit, for the food was strange to her as yet.

After that the three men made another attempt, and at last succeeded in finding the entrance to the secret chamber, but it was empty and deserted, and gave no clue to the real object of their search. So bullock-cart and horses and police escort were got ready for the jounrey.

"I should have preferred, like Wrencroff, to stay behind and find the Colonel," remarked Duncan, when Stella had at last been made comfortable in the cart; "but I think it's best to get Stella out of the way before they have time to invent some new way of hurting her."

"Yes; I'm sure it is," replied Lloyd. "There are three police-stations on the road where they will be able to change your bullocks, and at each of them I have a man who can ride like the deuce, so you would know within a few hours if we found anything. We can, of course, only do our best."

"Thank you," said Wrencroff, shaking his hand warmly. "I shall ride back as soon as possible after seeing my cousin comfortably settled at head-quarters."

So the little party, with a jingle of bullock-bells altogether out of harmony with the sad thoughts that lingered around the temple, set off on its long and dusty journey.

CHAPTER XXXIII. THE PADRE'S BUNGALOW.

FIFTY miles from the temple, following the course that the bustards might be expected to take in September -- that is, over variegated patches of jungle, never turning to right or left, over rough red ridges, dangerously deep nullahs, stretches of dingy black cotton soil, and finally over a great level plain, splashed here and there it may be with a few oases of green paddy fields beneath the bunds of ancient tanks, but always grey, and for ever rolling on into the distant horizon, one comes at last to a yellow-washed bungalow on the bank of a broad river. It is not an isolated building. Within gunshot of its compound gates rise the grim, though now somewhat dilapidated walls of a huge Mohammedan harem; from the terraces on its flat roof other compounds after its own pattern can be seen along the river bank, also green gardens where mangoes, sweet limes and guavas grow in profusion, while outside its gates minarets and monoliths of temple and mosque lift up their heads in ever-increasing numbers towards the heart of the city that lies behind the nuptial prison -- an ancient city of strange ways and still stranger history, if someone would only search in its by-ways and open the sealed door of its archives!

The bungalow at that time was a long, rambling building of two stories, and, like the city of which it formed part, had passed through many strange vicissitudes of fortune, for it had been the scene of many struggles, and had been tossed about between Hindu and Mohammedan long before the European came into possession.

It was perched in a most extraordinary manner on the fort wall that encircled the city. The bedrooms that were at the east end were built upon a sort of bulwark projected from the rampart, those on the west were built partly on the wall and partly off, while the two sets of apartments were connected by a long room that ran for fifty feet along the wall itself, which at this point drops sheer down into the river more than thirty feet below.

The lower story of the building, formed as it was by the blank wall of the city and two rows of columns to support the extra breadth of the rooms and verandas above, was little more than an open colonnade with a small store-room at each end, and at this time was utilised by the padre for his various parochial institutions.

The padre was a man of medium height, with a solemn cast of features, but with a heart of gold -- intensely devoted to his work, and desiring nothing but to spend and be spent for the welfare of his brethren. And his wife, though not much more than a girl in years, was one of the sweetest of God's good women. Her dark brown hair was, as a rule, drawn tightly back after the style of the Puritans in the early part of the nineteenth century; but this only increased the Madonna-like cast of her gentle face. As for her eyes they were greyish, deepening to more certain grey with a sprinkle of yellow dots, when burnished with pity for human suffering, and the sweetest of consolations for man or woman to look into when in trouble. Her husband adored them, as he adored everything else about her, for there was neither gush nor sanctimoniousness about anything that the padre's wife did, yet she was heart and soul in her husband's work, and those who knew her at all intimately learnt to admire the quiet dignity with which she did everything.

Since the time of the padre, the compound around his bungalow, of which he was exceedingly proud, has sadly fallen into neglect. Famine-stricken goats and buffaloes and wood-cutting coolies have long ago denuded the compound of almost all the trees and shrubs that once filled it, and only a few gigantic banyan trees and one or two margosa trees remain to tell of its former glory.

But the favourite garden of the padre and his wife, who were horticulturists in their own little way, was not in the compound at all; it was situated on the river bank; that is, on the top of the bastion which could be seen from the back veranda. Upon this discarded piece of defensive earthwork the man and wife had ingeniously taken to planting oleanders, rose bushes, crotons, and all kinds of sweet-smelling shrubs until they had turned the remnants of the ruined bastion into a veritable Garden of Eden. And, as the top of the broken bastion was far below the top of the wall and somewhat towards the east, four o'clock usually found the garden well sheltered in the shade of the bungalow above, and still further sheltered from the glare of the afternoon sky by two trees which had found it necessary to their own existence to grow at an angle from the cracks which they had made in the city wall.

It is into this delicious arbour that we wish to conduct our reader out of the afternoon heat, about a fortnight after the events of the last chapter.

Picturesque and pleasant, indeed, was the scene that met the gaze of two men on that particular afternoon as they rested for a moment unobserved on the upper part of the steps.

The padre's wife, dressed in the softest of pink muslins, sat by the side of a bamboo teapoy putting the last touches to an exceedingly dainty tea-set that had come to her from the English parish to which she herself belonged and in which the padre had for a time laboured. Wedded unity had evidently brought her peaceful happiness, for contentment looked out from her eyes as she watched with quiet amusement the game of hide-and-seek going on at her feet between a tiny mite of two years and a tall stately girl with a very pale but beautiful face. For the moment, however, the girl's stateliness was not in evidence, for the laughing child had surrendered to its kneeling captor, who, having tenderly gathered up the padre's little daughter into her arms, sat down on the big tent carpet spread out in the centre of the bastion, and proceeded to torment the child into shrieks of gurgling laughter.

"You are a torn-boy, dear," said the padre's wife laughingly. "Whatever will the Collector think when he finds it out?"

The girl looked up, a puzzled expression in her beautiful eyes. Then she smiled, showing the tips of pearly white teeth.

"He will love me more, I think," she breathed softly.

"Yes; I'm sure he will. You are really very beautiful, Stella, and -- well! I don't think he will be able to help himself whatever you may be or do. Ah! here comes Arthur -- and" (with a mischievous glance) "the Collector Sahib."

Stella, with the soft red tint of an Eastern dawn creeping over the ivory pallor of her cheeks, rose to her feet. As a rule the proximity of her lover did not make her self-conscious -- the bond between them was too close. Like most women loved genuinely for themselves she usually forgot herself altogether in the presence of their mutual love. But to-day she was nervously conscious of her appearance and the complete metamorphosis which had taken place in it since he had last seen her, and she shrank with a tremor from a possible disapprobation. Hitherto, in the matter of dress, a compromise had been made with the inevitable changes, and, as she had done all her life, she had continued to wear one of her artistic saris. But to-day for the first time she was dressed in a white cashmere dress -- à l'anglaise down to the smallest detail.

With the quick comprehension of a deeply sympathetic woman, the padre's wife, watching with a covert glance of mixed admiration and affection for the dénouement of her own little plot, saw just the shadow of a shrinking fear dim the crystal clearness of her companion's usually brave, fearless eyes.

"Stella, dear," she said, as her hand touched Stella's with a caressing touch, "I declare you are trembling -- like a bird fluttering with fright. But, indeed, there is no reason to do so -- you are quite superb. I can't take my own eyes away from you! -- so what about the husband that is to be?"

But it was poor comfort for Stella, who seemed for once afraid to look into her lover's eyes. Had she done so, instead of trying to hide her sudden access of shyness under cover of the child's insistent demands for more play, she would have seen not only a confirmation of her hostess's assurance, but also something in his face that would have reminded her of that first wonderful meeting near the stream.

During the two weeks that had passed she had made tremendous strides; inherited instincts and ideals planted and fostered in her mind by the Colonel, her father, had already taught her to live in a world of visions beyond the purdah, and so when the change had come she had slipped into her new environment with all the naturalness and adaptability of one born to it. Little by little, during the years of his stolen interviews with her, her father had taught her a truth here and a truth there of religion, knowing that that was the best and surest way to guard her from the corrupt influences around her. In the same way he had tried to leave her a word or a sentence of the language that ought to have been common to both in order that she might treasure them up in her mind, unknown to those around her. And she had treasured them up as she had been bidden; but she did not find them easy to marshal into order. When she spoke them, it was more or less with hesitation and the faint suggestion of a lisp -- a lisp that was as dear to the man's heart who loved her, as a child's is to its mother.

"You've certainly made a delightful spot of the old bastion," said Duncan in answer to a remark, as he dropped into a basket-chair between the teapoy and Stella.

"I am so glad you like it," replied the padre's wife, smiling. "My husband and I are very fond of it. Most of the flowers, I am afraid, are going off now with the approach of the hot weather, but the shrubs are not doing badly."

"Your plantains and papaws seem to be keeping alive all right."

"Yes; the mali says they will both bear fruit next year if they go on as well as they are doing now."

"What do you think of the view, Duncan?" joined in the padre. "Don't you think it's rather fine?"

"I certainly do," agreed Duncan heartily, as he followed the direction of the padre's hand, which, in a sweeping gesture, included the lines of trees and gardens on both sides of the river, and also the cotton fields which could be seen stretching away in black and grey patches to the distant horizon.

"I think you ought to be very grateful for being here, Mrs. Norton," he continued with a laugh. "You are really much better placed than the rest of us."

"Oh, we are content enough," laughed back the padre. "At least for the time being -- aren't we, Eva?"

"Yes; I don't think we could do better here. At the same time, Mr. Duncan can hardly grumble with his huge bungalow. Now, as for Mr. Lloyd and Colonel Jackson -- they really have serious cause for complaint. Mrs. Jackson was telling me only yesterday that they could never get cool during the day, and that at night time it was so oppressive that they could not go to sleep."

"That's true, Mrs. Norton," admitted Duncan. "They are both in the centre of the bazaar. It's a mystery to me how they exist at all. Their bungalows are stuffy little places set in the midst of all the pungent smells of Asia. The Jacksons are coming to-night, are they not?"

"Yes; our little pot-luck dinner is a sort of welcome back to Captain Wrencroff and Mr. Lloyd after their long search. You have heard nothing more, I suppose?"

"Nothing more than a chit to say that they would be here some time before sunset. They are at one of the police stations half-way between here and the Agraharam, trying to find out whether there is any connection between Ramayya's band of dacoits and a raid that took place three or four days ago at a place called Paniram."

"We also received a note this morning from Captain Wrencroff," said Mrs. Norton; "but it was only to say that he was sending us some deer and peacock. There was nothing in it about Stella's father."

"I am afraid we shall have to give up all hope of finding him," said Duncan in a voice of sadness. "We were five minutes too late to save him -- that is what it seems to come to."

"How dreadfully sad! . . . One minute so near to saving him . . . the next to lose him so completely as not to know whether he is alive or dead!"

"And yet, until to-day, I don't think any of us has lost hope of eventually finding him alive, Mrs. Norton. You see, if they had wished to kill him it would have been quite easy to do so long before we entered the temple, but for some reason or other they had allowed him to live. The only explanation seems to be that they wished to keep him in the temple until he had revealed the secret in connection with his wealth. While the priest was carrying Stella through the chamber in which they had confined him, and we were fighting round the entrance to the garbhaliam which led into it, he seems to have been roused to such a passionate outburst of anger by the sight of Ramayya's success that he burst his bonds, felled Ramayya, and then tried to escape in order to get our help to rescue Stella. For the moment that we held his hand through the opening in the wall made by the displaced idol it must have seemed to his enemies as if he were about to escape altogether out of their power. They did not wish to kill him, and yet they were in great danger of losing him, and with him the only thing that kept them back from inflicting upon him the full extent of their vengeance -- hence the severed hand to get him away from us. There can be no doubt that the Sannyasi was the instigator of the heartless deed. Chirtha and Yellum are both convinced that the Sannyasi's avarice is at the bottom of it, and that he probably knows better than anybody else the real fate of the Colonel."

"Chirtha and Yellum -- they are the sons of Naga, Colonel WrencrofFs old servant, are they not?"

"Yes; they are Naga's sons by a second wife -- his first wife died under very tragic circumstances for which the priests in the Agraharam were more or less responsible. That is the reason why the Nagites hate the temple and all in connection with it. The feud between the Nagites and the Agraharam was at its height at the time that Colonel Wrencroff began his search for diamonds in the Black Hills, and even before he rescued Stella's mother from the suttee, the priests had already turned their attention to him in a hostile manner because he had helped to save Naga from being killed under the juggernaut car. When Naga died some years later the Colonel took advantage of the existence of this feud by making it the cover under which he tried to rescue his daughter; for the priests were under the impression that the Colonel was dead, and knew nothing of the death of Naga, whose character and appearance the Colonel had adopted as a disguise."

"Has anything further been discovered in connection with the Sannyasi or Ramayya, the priest?"

"No; the police have searched all over the country for them -- even in the semi-purdahed houses of the Agraharam, where most of the people connected with the temple live; but, so far as I know, they have found nothing to help them. The Sannyasi and the priest have disappeared as completely as the Colonel himself."

"Perhaps to the same place," suggested Mrs. Norton.

"Yes, that is true," replied Duncan thoughtfully. "But I do not think there is much chance now of finding him alive."

"How sad to think that he just missed realising all his hopes after so many terrible years of waiting and suffering," replied Mrs. Norton in a low voice of pity. Duncan was silent for a moment. His love-lit eyes were dreamily watching Stella's movements. She had drawn off the padre's daughter, and was now standing with her near the edge of the bastion, pointing along the river. Her perfect outline was cut like a silhouette against the blue sky. Duncan's pulse beat hard as he realised afresh how beautiful she was.

"Yes, it does seem hard on the poor old fellow," he answered quietly. "But I suppose we must just accept it as one of those mysterious problems of human existence that lie beyond the ken of man's apprehension."

"Ah! There's the ayah at last," exclaimed Mrs. Norton, indicating a neatly-dressed native nurse, who had appeared at the door above the steps. "I really don't know what to make of her lately. This is the third time this week that she has been away all day long."

"I'm afraid we've all to get used to that out here, Mrs. Norton," laughed Duncan. "It's a special failing of the East. They work well enough for a week or ten days, then they collapse with a most plausible excuse -- if it's not a festival it's a wedding, or a birth, or a death. It's very difficult to teach them the need of perseverance, or to drive into their minds a sense of duty and responsibility. The inherent nobility of labour, apart from an equivalent reward, does not yet, I'm afraid, appeal to the Eastern mind."

"In the case of the ayah, it is especially disappointing, because, up till now, she has been a most exemplary girl during the two years that she has been with us."

"Ayah!" continued Mrs. Norton, addressing the nurse, who had now reached the bastion, "you promised to be back by noon, didn't you?"

"Yes, madam," replied the ayah.

"Well, see! it is now past five o'clock."

"It is true, madam, but I wishing to come even before noon, only that relative woman get very sick and ask me to wait till she get better."

"Do you mean the new relative who recently discovered you?"

"Yes, madam, it is the same only."

"Well, ayah, I hope you will not want to go to see her again to-morrow?"

"No, madam. I never wishing to go myself; she only calling me. But to-morrow!"

"Well?" asked Mrs. Norton, glancing at Duncan with a look of despair.

"That relative woman -- !" said the ayah hesitatingly.

"Yes?"

"Want to see master."

"Oh," exclaimed Mrs. Norton in surprise, as she had expected a request for further leave. "Why? I hope she does not want to take you away?"

"No, madam. She never thinking of that."

"Well, what is it she wants to see me about?" asked the padre, who had been listening with an amused smile.

"A marriage," answered the ayah, whose dark complexion became suffused with a dull red glow.

"Oh!" again exclaimed Mrs. Norton in surprise. "So she wants to arrange a marriage, does she -- with whom?"

"Her nephew," answered the girl, drawing her veil, so that only her dark glistening eyes were visible.

"All right, ayah, go and look after baby," said Mrs. Norton, with a reflection of her husband's amused smile. "Master will see her to-morrow." And the ayah hurried away to hide her confusion in her assiduous attentions to baby Norton, much to everybody's quiet amusement.

"I'm afraid I must be going, Mrs. Norton," said Duncan, rising.

"Oh, I'm sorry you've to go so soon," answered the padre's wife, also rising, and holding out her hand.

"So am I -- very," replied Duncan, laughing; "but I've one or two things to do before dark. What time is dinner?"

"Eight, prompt," put in the padre. "That is, if the others have arrived."

"Good! I shall be up to time." And, with a last exchange of glances with Stella, Duncan departed.

CHAPTER XXXIV. POT-LUCK.

NOTWITHSTANDING her innate goodness of heart and saintliness the padre's wife had a few weaknesses. She loved floral decorations, silver candlesticks, bonbon dishes, finger bowls, antique ornaments and eastern curiosities, and in consequence she loved her pot-luck dinners, because they gave full scope to follow the trend of her artistic tastes.

To-night her table was a glory to behold. Ferns, grasses, and flowers hung over the rim of dainty Indian vases and filled the room with their wonderful mixture of perfumes. A mass of roses crowded the upper part of a tall, stately epergne in the centre of the table, while curious fruits and sweetmeats filled the lower dishes. A silken centre-piece, resplendent with gold and silver spangles, gave a still whiter purity to the spotless linen. The sparkle of glass alternated with the bright gleam of silver cutlery, and the coming and going of plates and dishes. Around the gaily decorated table sat ten animated Anglo-Indian faces, and behind each man stood a boy in braided turban and white clothes watching jealously for the next need of his master, while over all the punkah moved softly to and fro with a suggestion of cooler climes.

The soup, a product of the tail-end of the padre's experiment in the tomato line, had disappeared, and cooling drinks were being supplied to the thirsty diners with the second course.

"What can that noise be?" asked Mrs. Jackson, listening attentively to a curious rumble that made itself heard above the conversation going on around the table. "It is as if there were a riot in the town."

The rest of the company had also heard it, and were trying to make out the nature of the sound.

"It's the Shiva-ratri, to-night," said Duncan slowly, as he listened to the ominous rumble. "They are probably having one of their processions through the town. I can hear the tom-toms. I hope there'snot going to be any trouble to-night! -- what do you think, Lloyd?"

The latter, with a puzzled expression on his face, was, like the rest, trying to distinguish the nature of the noise.

"Last year," he said slowly, "there was a big row, and unfortunately some were killed; but that was owing to the fact that the Mohammedan festival and the Shiva-ratri coincided. When I left the town just now everything was quiet, and the inspectors said that there was no danger of trouble as the Mohammedans were not at all concerned in the festival. I think it must be a procession, though it does sound as if they were getting out of hand."

As they listened, however, the angry roar died away, and, as the silence that followed remained unbroken, conversation around the padre's table soon became general again.

"By the way," said Duncan, speaking to Lloyd, who was on the other side of Stella, "how is that Rajput? I suppose they are taking good care of him."

"No; I'm afraid there's no need to do that any longer," answered Lloyd quietly.

"Oh! how's that?" asked Duncan, surprised.

"For the simple reason that he's dead."

"Dead!"

"Yes!"

"Are you sure?"

"I saw his body before coming on here."

"Good heavens! What has happened to him?"

"There was a raid on the prison, and a daring attempt to rescue him while most of the constables were out in the town guarding against trouble during the Hindu procession. The constable on guard was nearly killed, and the Rajput was getting away when the former shot him. There was a woman in the affair, but unfortunately she got away."

"I'm very sorry, indeed, to hear that," said Duncan. "I was hoping that we would get him to confess something that would enable us to capture the whole gang."

Lloyd shook his head doubtfully.

"I don't think he would have told us anything. They have questioned him two or three times while he has been in prison; but, beyond acknowledging the fact that he was himself an outlaw, he has consistently rebutted all the suggestions that were put to him with a view to implicating others. He told a funny story about Wrencroff and the temple priest, Ramayya."

"H'm," exclaimed Wrencroff who had been listening. "What was that?"

The D.S.P. laughed heartily.

"He swore that Ramayya had nothing whatever to do with the dacoits, and maintained that the scene which took place on the plateau was simply a 'fake' to frighten you away from the neighbourhood of the temple."

"By Jove! that's an ingenious explanation," exclaimed Wrencroff, looking somewhat puzzled.

"Yes," answered Lloyd, smiling. "They're difficult to get hold of at any time. When they stand by each other it's practically impossible. This dacoit seems to have been the most unscrupulous villain ever heard of in this District; but I'm afraid nothing would have induced him to betray his companions -- especially the priest, who seems to have had a tremendous influence over the gang."

* * * * *

Meanwhile, in the colonnade below, a momentous conversation was taking place between a tall woman in a dingy sari and Mrs. Norton's ayah. The latter was a little, plump body of about seventeen years, not blessed with too much intelligence, but bubbling over with animal spirits of a kindly nature. Belonging to a social stratum a little above the ordinary ruck of pariahs, she had lost her parents in an epidemic of smallpox two years before, and, though not a Christian, was likely to become one under the supervision of the padre's wife. But human nature is human nature all the world round, and romance, which evidently forms a big element in it, will find its way into a maid's heart as well as into the heart of her mistress. Dressed in a white sari with a narrow gilt edge she sat now in the shade of the colonnade, her ample bosom rising and falling, as the older woman talked to her in a subdued whisper.

"I have seen Razulu," said the woman in the dingy sari.

"Amma!" murmured the maid, trembling with delight.

"Ay, it is true; thou hast enchanted him. He cannot sleep at night for thinking of thee; in the day time he cannot work because he dreams."

"Ukka! thou meanest well! But how can I know that it is as thou sayest?"

"Is he not my own nephew?" scornfully asked the woman.

"'Tis true. Yet thou mayest be mistaken."

"Mistaken! -- chee! Have I not seen his eyes since he was a child? Was it not he, himself, who came all the way to my village to seek me out and tell me the trouble that was in his heart, and was it not through him that I, thy mother's sister, found thee out? And further, see what thy Razulu hath sent thee!" said the woman, holding out a beautiful gold bangle.

"Ubba!" ejaculated the girl, her black eyes gleaming with pleasure. "Razulu sent it to me?"

"Ha, ha!" laughed the woman, with just the faintest suspicion of irony. "Thou dost not believe -- even now?"

"Nay, say not so, amma," answered the ayah, wavering between doubt and certainty.

"Then put it on thy wrist, child; it will add to thy beauty. Men, as thou wilt learn, love to see the baubles they buy adorn the women they love. And Razulu will see the value thou puttest on himself by thy wearing his gift."

"Ah, he will come then?" asked the girl, modestly arranging her veil, as if the would-be bridegroom were already on the threshold.

"Ay, he is impatient to see thee, and will be on the bastion to-night, as I promised thee this morning. To-morrow he will ask the padre for thee. Thou wilt not fail us then -- to-night?"

"Nay; I will come, amma. But it will not be easy; for the Collector's missy sleeps in the room above the steps."

"But thou, thou also sleepest with her, dost thou not? What difficulty is there to prevent thee from coming when she hath fallen asleep?"

"The door -- it is a heavy door with bolts and chains, and the missy may wake, for she ever sleepeth lightly."

The older woman laughed contemptuously, as if she would scorn such a small barrier to an intrigue.

"Thou must use wisdom in thy love affairs, daughter. Canst thou not go now and place the door so that it will open without telling the world that thy lover waits for thee outside? But see! I have also brought thee a little powder in case of need, to help thy missy to sleep less lightly. Put a little of it in her cooja or somewhere where she can breathe it, and then thou mayest come and go without fear."

So the two women parted. The ayah, palpitating with strange hopes, and without a more evil thought than the ayah who places opium under her finger nail for her charge to suck so that her own siesta may remain unbroken, ascended to the bedroom above the bastion, where she sprinkled the soporiferous substance in accordance with her companion's directions, then sat down, with an inimitable air of innocence, to wait for the Collector's missy coming to bed.

* * * * *

Coffee was now being handed round in the big room where the three ladies were sitting waiting for the men, who were finishing their cheroots. Suddenly the sound which had attracted their attention during dinner broke out again on the night air.

"Don't like that noise," Duncan remarked to Lloyd as he handed the latter a match.

"Nor I -- I ..." Before he could express his opinion, his servant came up to him and whispered in his ear.

"I'll come now and see him," he said to the man, as he rose from the table. "Excuse me a moment, Duncan. I'll be back directly."

A few minutes later the D.S.P. returned looking very grave.

"What is it, Lloyd?" asked Duncan, noting the look of anxiety on the other's face.

"There's an inspector downstairs; he says they're working up to mischief in the town."

"I thought so. Is it serious?"

"Yes; the whole town apparently."

"What has done it?"

"Oh, that wretched system of mammul. The Hindus want to carry their idols past the big mosque at midnight. They say that their fathers did it long before the mosque was built, and that it's necessary for the success of their festival. The Mohammedans object and are preparing to resist. Some of them have gone to the Hindu temple and threaten to smash the idols if the procession is carried out. The real motive, however, seems to be a desire on both sides to retaliate for the deaths that took place last year. I suspect also that there are some special wire-pullers with an interest of their own -- probably some of those who tried to rescue the Rajput. I must get away now and change, and see what can be done to prevent anything in the way of a repetition of last year's melee."

"Just wait a minute, and I'll come with you," replied Duncan.

While Lloyd was making his apologies, and explaining the reason of his hurried departure to the padre's wife, Duncan went in search of Stella. As he stood a moment at the entrance to the long room making some suggestions to Lloyd, he saw her standing near one of the doors on the opposite veranda, watching him with big open eyes as if she suspected the presence of some new danger. Her green satin dress with its silver trimming, veiled in its rose-coloured net, fell in a long train around her.

Duncan led her out on to the veranda, then, turning and looking into her troubled eyes, said quietly:

"Dearest, I must go; I am sorry, for I wanted to be with you to-night -- one of the very few now left before you will come to me altogether."

"It is the sound which comes in the air, is it not?" she asked in a voice that trembled.

"Yes, dear; but it is nothing. Only, I must say good-bye, as there will not be time to return."

"Ah!" she breathed sadly. "I wish you not to go. There is some danger. I feel it -- as I felt it in the temple. Ah! why must you go -- you that love and are loved? Why go to those who care not whether you live or die. You say it is nothing -- then stay. But it is something. I see it in the two faces as you talk." Then slipping away into the vernacular speech, as she was apt to do whenever she was excited, she continued: "Ah! I understand very well. Thy face is even now quite cold; it is saying,' I will go whatever Stella say.' And I -- I must obey thee and be silent whenever thy face is so. But see -- I shall die quickly if aught happen to thee."

Duncan held her closely to himself for some minutes, looking into the troubled depths of her beautiful eyes.

"Nay, sweetheart, fear not. I will return quite safe to-morrow. I would not leave thee now if I could stay; but duty calls and it is necessary to go. So be brave, little one, as thou well knowest how to be."

"Ah! I can be brave sometimes, if it is for myself only. But now," and she put her hand near her heart, "something tells me not to let thee go from me. But it shall be as thou thinkest best."

So Duncan kissed the soft lips which pressed upon his own, and with a wrench dragged himself away from the spot -- leaving her leaning against the veranda railings with white face and terror-stricken eyes, and ears that listened with a painful tension to the angry cries beating upon the night air.

CHAPTER XXXV. THE AGRAHARAM.

FORTUNATELY, Duncan and Lloyd arrived together at the principal zone of the city's disturbance in time to avert an impending disaster. The main thoroughfare leading through the heart of the city past the mosque was already crowded with an almost impassable barrier of excited Mohammedans determined to resist any outrage upon their religious scruples; the rest of the bazaar and side streets were seething with angry groups of Hindus of the agricultural classes drawn from the neighbouring villages. Under cover of the darkness of the night regrettable incidents had already occurred here and there throughout the congested areas where rival parties had found argument unavailing. Every man's hands had come to the point of itching to be at his neighbour's throat, so that very little more in the way of excitement would have sufficed to turn the bazaar into a pandemonium and the city into a blaze.

The appearance of the two European officials, with their strict impartiality, their cool assurance, and their evident determination to maintain peace and order, had, however, turned the scale in favour of compromise, and, after an hour's secret anxiety and many diplomatic moves, a temporary armistice had at last been arranged between the would-be belligerents -- the Mohammedans agreeing to the procession and promising not to do anything to arouse the prejudice of the Hindus, on condition that the latter made no sound with their drums and horns within fifty yards of each corner of the mosque, and veiled and lowered their idols as they passed the building. With equal good fortune the police, drawn from both races, had worked loyally, uninfluenced by racial feelings; and so the procession had come and gone without any further regrettable incidents.

But unrest had continued to prevail throughout the city till it was almost dawn, and so the two men had been kept to their saddles practically all through the night. The butler's cock was crowing out the false dawn when Duncan arrived back at his bungalow, so tired that he had almost passed into sleep before his head touched the pillow.

His sleep had not yet brought him the rest he needed, when, with an effort that made his heart thump painfully, he found himself striving to break through a dream in which Stella, pursued by enemies, seemed to be the exciting factor.

His chota-hazri of coffee and plantains was already set upon a small table near his bed, and his boy was engaged in lifting the mosquito net, when he opened his eyes.

"Halloa, boy! What's this?" he exclaimed with a yawn, as he caught sight of a neatly-folded paper amidst the plantains.

"Letter for master. Padre's chokra done bring it just now."

"That's curious," thought Duncan to himself as he proceeded to open the little chit bearing his name in the small handwriting of the padre's wife. "Whatever can she have to say at this time of the morning?" And he opened out the little note with uncertain fingers and tried to read the message through lids that were only half-opened.

"Good Lord!" he exclaimed a moment later, starting up in bed, his eyes protruding almost from their sockets, as he made a mental effort to grasp the meaning of the faintly scented chit.

"I'm dreaming! -- or drunk! -- or mad! Good heavens, the thing's impossible! Poor Stella! and I've been sleeping here like a dog while she has been in trouble. But what in the world is it that the padre's wife has to say? Why couldn't she write in her chit what has happened. Poor little girl! and you pleaded with me last night not to go away, as if you felt that danger was lurking somewhere near. But I had to, dear. It was duty, and one has to do it whatever it may cost."

"Master going riding?" asked his boy, astounded at the sudden frantic haste with which Duncan was getting into his clothes.

"Yes; tell the syce to saddle the fastest pony in the stable -- the brown arab, if it is all right. Quick! . . . I'm in the biggest hurry I've ever been in my life."

As he put the last touches to his toilet he again glanced at the note which had caused him so much disturbance, to see if he could penetrate to the deeper meaning that lay between the written lines; but, like a woman in great trouble or perplexity, Mrs. Norton had slurred over the one important thing which he most anxiously desired to know.

"DEAR MR. DUNCAN" (so it ran), -- "Please come at once without delay; something dreadful has happened to Stella. Oh, please, do come quickly! I am so distressed I scarcely know how or what to write.

"Yours sincerely,

"EVA NORTON."

Ten minutes later Duncan was standing in the veranda of the padre's bungalow. On the way from his own place he had tried to steel himself to meet unflinchingly the blow that awaited him, and all that remained to tell of the terrible brain-beat that had kept time to the pattering of his pony's hoofs were the deep creases about his mouth and the drawn, angular appearance of his face.

It was soon evident to him that Eva Norton had also been passing through a severe crisis. With haggard eyes and blanched cheeks she came out to meet him.

"Oh!" she exclaimed in a low, gasping voice. "You have come at last!"

"Yes," answered Duncan; "I came as soon as I received your note. What is it that has happened to Stella?"

"She has gone," answered Mrs. Norton, and her voice sounded as if all the life had been washed out of it by bitter tears.

"Gone!" he exclaimed.

"Yes."

"But, I don't understand, Mrs. Norton. Stella gone! -- when? -- where?"

"We do not know. I found her room empty, when I went to call the ayah. At first we did not suspect anything wrong, as she is an early riser, and sometimes goes down into the compound after chota. It was the ayah's absence which made us begin to think that something must have happened to Stella."

For a moment Duncan was silent. The terrible throb had come back in his brain, and he found it difficult to maintain a clear line of thought through the jumble of ideas crowding into his mind. "Where's the padre?" he asked suddenly.

"He has gone to bring Mr. Lloyd. He ought to be back in a few minutes."

Her voice broke on the last word, and Duncan for the first time realised how near she was to a breakdown.

"Please sit down, Mrs. Norton," he said in a kind voice as he drew forward a chair for her. "I am very sorry to see you so distressed; but perhaps the position is not altogether hopeless. If you could please tell me all that has occurred since we were here last night it might help me to see matters in a better light."

But the padre's wife had very little, indeed, to tell him. Stella had completely disappeared, that was all she could say -- when or where or how no one had the faintest idea. One thing, however, seemed to point to the fact that she had been gone many hours, for her bed had not been slept in and the dress which she had worn at dinner had also disappeared with her.

"But the ayah always slept with her, didn't she, Mrs. Norton?" asked Duncan unsteadily.

"Yes, always."

"And last night?"

"She was with Stella when I went in to say good night. But this morning we found the door leading to the river quite wide open, and, later on, the ayah herself lying in a sort of stupor in the garden on the old bastion."

"Has she recovered yet?"

"Yes, after a great deal of trouble; but she is still rather stupid. We have asked her about Stella, but she is quite unable to tell us anything. Last night, the relative whom she referred to while we were on the bastion seems to have come to talk to her about the marriage which is being arranged for her with the woman's nephew. While they were talking, she says they both became sleepy as they sat on the bastion, and after that she does not remember anything at all."

"This new relative of hers is quite a new acquaintance, is she not?" asked Duncan, a suspicion suddenly suggesting a vital connection between the newly-gained relative and Stella's disappearance.

"Yes; until recently the ayah did not even know she had such a relative."

"Have you seen the woman at all?" asked Duncan eagerly.

"Only once, and that hardly for a moment. She is an unusually tall woman, with a good-looking face, but something very disagreeable about it."

"Ah!" exclaimed Duncan. "Had she very black, bold eyes?"

"Yes, I think that describes them exactly. It was the eyes which gave one the unpleasant feeling."

"I thought so!" groaned Duncan. "It is Ida, the temple dasi. She has simply made a fool of the credulous ayah, with whom she can have no family connection whatever."

"Here is Arthur," said Mrs. Norton as the sound of horses' hoofs beat upon the gravelled path. "Mr. Lloyd and Captain Wrencroff are with him," she added, pointing down to the three riders approaching the bungalow.

"Captain Wrencroif was out riding when I came, so I suppose they have picked him up on their way here," said Duncan as he went down to join the men in the compound.

A few minutes later the four friends were holding a consultation down by the river as to the best course to be followed in their search for Stella.

"There isn't the slightest doubt that they must have gone by the river," remarked the padre. "They could not possibly have passed through the long room and out by the front entrance without waking some of us or the peons who sleep in front."

"But how do you think they got away by the river?" asked Lloyd.

"There was a basket-boat here last night and I think they must have made use of it to carry Miss Wrencroff off."

"Could you recognise the boat again?"

"It would be difficult to do so, as they are all much alike. But there are very few boats on the river now that it is drying up; so the difficulty of distinguishing this particular one is not so great as it might have been. It is quite possible that the boat used last night may be found within a mile from here, as the water straggles about in streams both higher up and lower down, and the boats, at this time of the year, keep to the deeper parts."

"I'm sure I could recognise the boatmen again," said Duncan. "One of them was an extraordinary dwarf-like fellow with great muscles; the other had evidently, from the appearance of his face, had smallpox."

"If, as Duncan thinks, she has fallen into Ida's hands again, they are hardly likely to go back to the temple just now," said Wrencroff. "The question then is, where are they most likely to have gone to? Would it be possible for them to hide Stella in the city itself?"

"Yes," replied Lloyd doubtfully; "with the help of friends it might be possible to do that. But I do not think they would risk the danger. Their object would be to get her away as far as possible. The temple, I agree, is altogether out of the question."

"There's the Agraharam," suggested Duncan.

"Yes, that's true, and I am myself inclined to think that they must have dropped down the river till they were clear of the city and then made for the Agraharam, or some other place of safety. If you are all ready we'll ride to the ford near the city gate, and see if we can find any trace of that boat."

So the others having agreed, they sought their horses, and, after Lloyd had given instructions to an inspector who was waiting in the compound, they rode for the city gate that overlooked the common ford lower down the river. Having spent some time trying to glean information about the basket-boats, and, failing to do so, they began to follow the course of the river down stream.

"I say," suddenly cried the padre when they had reached a place where the deeper water spread out into a number of shallow channels; "look over there -- under the trees, on the other side of the river. What is that dark object lying on the ground?"

"Yes; you're right, padre -- that's a basket-boat, if I'm not very much mistaken. Come on, all of you!" cried Lloyd. And as he finished speaking, his horse, with the others in its wake, splashed through the stream, then raced over the stretch of sand that lay between them and the trees on the far bank."

"Yes, that's it!" cried the padre when they had reached the spot where the huge coracle was lying.

"There's no doubt it was in the water last night," said Lloyd, pointing to the water that still remained in the bottom of the boat.

"Oh, that's all right," said Duncan. "The next step is to get hold of the people to whom it belongs."

"That won't be quite so easy, I fear," said Lloyd. "However, we'll find out in a few minutes what can be done. There are some constables coming across. They'll know where to find the men who run these boats. Meanwhile, we'd better look round and see if we can find out for ourselves whether Miss Wrencroff came with the boat or not."

So the men dismounted and began to search on all sides of the boat to see whether they could discover anything that would go to confirm the padre's suspicion that the basket-boat brought by the fishermen the day before had been used as the means of kidnapping Stella from the bungalow.

The constables, who had been sent by the inspector to give assistance to the D.S.P., had crossed the river and were approaching the place where the coracle was lying, when Lloyd, who was busy scooping the water out of the bottom, called the others to him, and, with much satisfaction, showed them two small pearl buttons which he had found in the boat. There was now no longer any doubt that the boat was the one they were in search of; but, beyond helping to establish this fact, the little ornaments did not give much assistance towards solving the greater difficulty which now faced them.

On being questioned, the police assured them that the only community of fishermen within ten miles on this side of the river was about half a mile down stream in a grove of tamarind trees, the tops of which could be seen from the place where they were standing. So Lloyd ordered some of them to go and find out the owners of the boat and to bring them back as quickly as possible, while the others were told off to go and search for traces of the lady who had been carried off from the padre's bungalow. Half an hour later, to the great excitement of the four Englishmen, two important discoveries had been made. The owners of the boat had been found. According to their story the boat had disappeared the day before while they were all in the city watching the festival; and the fact that it was missing from its place amongst the other coracles kept on the river bank had only been noticed a little before the arrival of the police in their hamlet, and a quarrel was going on between the owners and those suspected of having had a hand in its disappearance when the police arrived. The joy and the relief of the boatmen on seeing their boat again was too genuine to suspect them of having had any hand in Stella's abduction, and the one hopeful source of definite information seemed to have failed the four friends altogether, when one of the constables appeared with a small evening shoe in his hand. He had found it, he explained, about a mile away on the bandy-track going to Shiva-puram, and had run all the way back with it.

"Shiva-puram -- how far is that?" asked Lloyd.

"Oh, I know that place," said the padre. "It's about ten miles from here. It's simply crammed with Shivite temples. The road is about as rough as it can be -- all hills and jungle."

"I've heard of it also," said Duncan. "It's an independent sort of place and belongs to a small zemindar. The whole of the inhabitants are Brahmins, I believe."

"Well, what do you say?" asked Lloyd. "Don't you think we had better go there. It's the only place which suggests itself at present."

"Yes; it does seem the likeliest place. What do you think, Guy?" asked Duncan.

"I agree with Lloyd. We have nothing else to go on, so far, but the shoe."

"Let's go, then!"

And the four men mounted their horses and rode away along the rough road that led to Shiva-puram.

* * * * *

At that moment nearly twenty miles away in the opposite direction, on the road that led to the Agraharam, a bullock cart was toiling along as quickly as the pair of tired bullocks could take it. A dark curtain at either end cut off the occupants from any inquisitive stare of the passers-by. Inside the bandy, Stella was slowly waking from a heavy sleep. She felt, as people feel after a long delirium, a curious lightness in her head, and the motion of the bandy made her lie passive for some time, afraid to open her eyes. With a painful effort she strove to piece the facts of life together in order to understand where she was and what had happened; but for a long time she failed to do so, until at last her mind seemed to become clearer and she perceived that she was in some sort of a vehicle. Then she suddenly grew frightened and opened her eyes with a start, to find Ida's cruel black eyes gazing into her own, and the dasi's mocking laugh ringing in her ears.

In her fright she struggled to get up, but Ida put her merciless hand upon her throat, and pressed her back.

"Ha, ha!" laughed the dasi cruelly. "Thou canst not escape from Ida this time. Let it be plain between thee and me! Death alone shall deliver thee from my hands. I would kill thee now, with joy, only we have prepared something better for thee and thy white maharajah."

Suddenly the bandy stopped with a jerk near a little hamlet nestled among some trees on the roadside. Many voices talked rapidly; feet hurried to and fro; bullocks bellowed stubbornly; the bandy moved about unsteadily, and to the accompaniment of all, Ida's voice kept up a continual reiteration of "Jeldi-jeldi" (quickly, quickly). Stella realised that a change of bullocks was taking place; her brain was still partly fogged with the narcotic that had kept her asleep up till now, but instinct warned her that she might not have another opportunity to appeal for assistance, so with the strength of the desperate she threw off Ida's hand which still clutched her throat, and sat up and screamed for help. The mocking smile on Ida's face changed to a terrible look of hatred.

"See, you daughter of a pariah," she hissed. "Be quiet! If thy lips open again they will soon close for ever."

Stella looked, as a bird might look at a snake, and as she looked she saw the point of a dagger descend to within an inch of her breast. And the dagger was that which she herself had carried for years as a gift from the "Servant of the Dead."

"Even now if anyone comes in answer to thy call they will find thee dead," smiled Ida. But no one came. The bullocks lurched forward into their slow, swinging gait, while the frightened girl sank back again into the unconsciousness from which she had never fully recovered.

* * * * *

"We have been done!" said Duncan, as he gazed across the table with sunken eyes and pallid cheeks.

"Thoroughly!" answered Lloyd, with bitter disappointment in his voice. "It was the cutest false trail imaginable. Especially that piece of lace handkerchief with 'Eva' worked upon it. One does not expect that sort of thing out in the East. We might have still been in that miserable Shiva-puram searching in impossible places had it not been for the inspector's report."

It was now past noon, and they were back in the padre's bungalow partaking of a hurried lunch while fresh horses were being brought round. They were all drinking more than eating, for they were very thirsty, and the fears and disappointments in their minds made food unpalatable.

"I've not heard yet what that inspector had to say. What was it?" asked Wrencroff, turning to Lloyd.

"It seems that he had ridden about ten miles along the main road when he met a post-peon and a taliari. He spoke to them, and they told him that about eight o'clock they had seen a bullock-cart having a lame bullock changed at a small wayside village. The bullocks were giving some trouble, and, as they swerved to one side, the purdah over the end of the cart was thrown open, and they saw someone dressed in a green cloth with silver trimming. When they had got some distance away from the bandy they heard a scream; but they were not sure whether the scream came from the bandy or one of the huts on the roadside, and as the bandy had moved on again they continued their journey."

"How far do you think that bullock-cart will have travelled by now?"

"It depends largely on the bullocks," remarked the padre; "but, reckoning according to the usual rate they will be at least thirty miles from here. The bullocks round here are all very ponderous and seldom go more than three miles an hour, and often not so much, so I don't think they will be farther."

"Anyway, that means they'll be in the Agraharam before night," suggested Wrencroff, with an anxious look.

"Yes," said Lloyd slowly; "I'm afraid they can reach the place before dark, if that is their object."

"What do you think the real distance is from here, Lloyd?" asked Duncan in a strained voice.

"Fully forty-five miles by the near way, nearer fifty by the main road."

"It is necessary to overtake that bandy before it can reach the Agraharam. You see that, don't you?"

"Yes," answered Lloyd, mentally noting the terrible ravages which a few hours had wrought on Duncan's face.

"Then I mean to do so," was the quiet reply, and Duncan's powerful jaw seemed to grow squarer than ever.

"Oh, we are coming also," broke in Lloyd and Wrencroff.

"I, too, would like to come," said the padre; "but, as you see, my pony's done for, and there's no likelihood of getting another animal that would keep up with yours."

A few minutes later they were riding between the two rows of tamarind trees that lined the road for a mile or so beyond the town.

"It will be best to go steadily for the first ten miles," said Duncan, as they cleared the outskirts of the city. "After that we might try to get all we can out of them."

Soon after leaving the avenue of tamarind trees they rose steadily round the base of a hill, then dipped down again to the level of a large tank. From this point the road ran like a broad white ribbon across the scorching plains, and the three men cantered on without speaking, with eyes half closed against the dancing waves of light, and topees jammed down over the napes of their necks to protect them against the blistering rays of the sun.

It was well past three o'clock when -- their horses white with foam and themselves streaming with perspiration -- they drew up at the door of a small flat-roofed building on the roadside.

"Get the constables to change the saddles at once!" said Lloyd to a sub-inspector who came out to meet them. "By the way," he added, as the man turned to carry out his order, "you received the inspector's message, I suppose?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, have you seen or heard anything of that bandy which we are in search of?"

"No, sir; it did not pass this station. There is a shorter cart-track from Kalvarum which your honours have passed on the main road, and this joins the main road again about ten miles farther on, near Paniram. I have myself just come from Paniram, but the man whom your honour placed there some days ago to watch the road says that no bandy with a mem-sahib in it has passed to-day."

"You are sure he can swear to that?"

"Yes, sir; he says that he has never been away from his hut, and that he has examined every bandy that has passed."

"Then he could give you no help whatever?"

"I think not, sir; but there was one thing which your honour might like to know."

"What was that?"

"The Swami's elephant passed along the road early this morning from that side, and, while I was there, it passed again on its way back."

"Was it carrying anything?" asked Duncan, who was listening to the conversation between the D.S.P. and the sub-inspector.

"Yes, your honour -- a howdah."

"Could you see what was in it?"

"No, your honour. It was all covered in with curtains."

"Where had it been to?" asked Lloyd.

"I called to the mahout and asked him where he had come from, but he would not listen," replied the sub-inspector.

"There is no village on the road between here and Paniram, is there?"

"No, sir; there is no village whatever, either on the road or off, between here and the village of Paniram."

"Did the Swami's elephant pass this station while you were at Paniram?"

"No, sir; we would have seen it, had it passed along this road. But neither I nor the constables saw it."

"Then it must have gone down the bandy-track to Kalvaram, don't you think, otherwise you would have passed it on your way to Paniram?" suggested Duncan.

"I think so, your honour."

Duncan looked at Lloyd questioningly.

"Yes!" said the latter in answer to Duncan's unspoken question.

"There has evidently been some kind of an exchange, and it is scarcely worth while looking for that purdahed bandy any longer."

* * * * *

The sun had already been set some time. The red flush in the sky had faded to a dull grey. The rectangular buildings of the Agraharam, perched as they were on the brow of a small hill, stood out for a moment sharp and clear against the pallid sky. Up the hill to the Agraharam the Swami's huge elephant was swinging along majestically between four and five miles an hour. To those in the howdah which it carried haste was evidently of the utmost importance, for the mahout was yelling frantically, and prodding the great beast mercilessly with his steel prong. The cause lay behind, in the three dark objects moving along the straight white road more than a mile away. A little time before, when they had first appeared upon the horizon, it would have been impossible for most to tell what the three black points were, but Ida, whose eyes were like those of a hawk, had recognised them almost immediately as horsemen. They were the three Englishmen, coming like the wind, with the inspector's mad pony giving the pace. The men had caught sight of the elephant as it rose on the higher ground above the plains, and, knowing that their one chance of saving Stella lay in the few furlongs between the elephant and the top of the hill, they were urging their horses to the limit of their powers, and the noble beasts, understanding that some great service was being required of them, were spending their last bit of strength to do it. The elephant was now only about two furlongs from the entrance to the Agraharam, but it was for ever going a shade more slowly, while the horsemen crept steadily nearer and nearer. Furious threats and wild promises mingled in the torrent of abuse which Ida hurled at the mahout to make him increase the animal's pace. In her excitement she had thrown back part of the curtains which had been arranged to hide the occupants of the howdah, and her face twitched with the desire to break into malignant joy, but an incipient fear as to the final result kept her under restraint. With a fierce grip she held the Colonel's dagger in her right hand, revolving in her mind a plot by which she would consummate her revenge to the greatest possible misery of her pursuers if they drew too near before the Agraharam was reached. At last the horsemen were quite distinct, though still some distance off, and the elephant was now within a furlong of the entrance to the village. Ida could restrain herself no longer.

"Ah! see," she cried, pointing towards the approaching Englishmen, "there is thy white maharajah, as thou didst call him in thy sleep. See how he comes; ay, he comes quickly, but nevertheless too late, for thou wilt be safe with Ramayya before he reaches the Agraharam. Jeldi, thou fool," she cried to the mahout. "Thou must put us down safely at the Swami's door, and get far away before they come. I will surely cut thine ears off if thou failest."

But the mahout had no desire to have his ears clipped. With shrill cries he urged the elephant on more quickly, and, as the men reached the bottom of the hill, led his colossal beast up one street and down another of the closely-packed Agraharam, and finally stopped at a heavy door set in a high wall. Almost before the elephant had got down on to its knees, half a dozen men had surrounded it, and, having helped Ida and dragged Stella out of the howdah, hurried them through the door, which they then closed, and disappeared.

"Ah!" cried Ida with fiendish triumph, turning upon Stella as they stood alone in the big empty court surrounded by its high wall. "Have I not kept my word, thou daughter of a pariah? Have I not taken thee out of the very hands of thy Collector Sahib? Ho, ho! he will soon gnash his teeth in despair." And Ida broke out into a long, cruel laugh. "Hearken!" she cried again. And the hoofs of the three Englishmen's horses beat with a painful thud on Stella's paralysed senses, as they clattered through the badly-paved streets of the Agraharam.

* * * * *

"It can't be far away," called out Lloyd to the others, as they rode up and down the narrow streets, where the houses were all painted with broad stripes of white and brown.

"There it is!" cried Duncan, pointing down a street, narrower than the rest.

"The road to the temple leads across the fields on the other side; they may be hoping to get away to the temple, or into the forest under cover of the darkness."

The three men swung round into a single file down the narrow street, and, for a moment, lost sight of the elephant, which had disappeared amongst a perfect warren of houses. When they saw it again it was going away across the fields at a big stride, screaming wildly with its trunk in the air, as if the mahout were torturing it to go still faster. In a few seconds the men had galloped up to it, and were calling upon the mahout to stop. With a meekness unlooked for the man obeyed, and the next moment the elephant was going down on its knees.

"Pull those curtains aside," ordered Duncan sharply.

The man did so.

Duncan almost fell out of his saddle on seeing the empty howdah.

"Damn!" muttered Lloyd under his breath.

Wrencroff looked on in speechless amazement.

"Done again!" muttered Duncan hopelessly.

"Not quite so badly, I think, as in Shiva-puram," remarked Lloyd. "I could stake my life on the fact that Miss Wrencroff was in that howdah. Look how frantically the mahout was urging on his beast."

"But it's almost as bad as if Stella had not been in the howdah at all," groaned Duncan. "See how the darkness is coming on. How is anyone to find out where they have hidden her in such a cursed hole as this?"

Matters, indeed, looked very black and discouraging for the three Englishmen; they had not the faintest clue to help them beyond the suspicion that Stella must have been in the howdah; they were all worn out by riding and faint with hunger; their horses also were thoroughly done -- even the inspector's wild-cat, whose energy had seemed inexhaustible, was hanging her head low; moreover, they knew only too well that the Agraharam would give them as little assistance as possible, and might even go further and show active hostility against them, for its very existence was bound up with the priests and the traditions of the temple.

"I think it will be best to take that mahout along with us. He has certainly a most evil-looking face, and I feel convinced that he could tell us the thing we want to know," said Lloyd, eyeing the man with a look of disapproval.

"How will you take him?" asked Wrencroff dully.

"Oh, I will truss him up all right to my bridle," replied the D.S.P., preparing to dismount.

At that moment, however, the attention of the three men was attracted by a dark figure running towards them from the direction of the village. Lloyd watched the man's approach with eagerness.

"Ah! here comes the Nagite whom we set to watch the Agraharam in case they should be tempted to bring Colonel Wrencroff here. He has evidently something important to tell us."

"What is it?" he asked, as the Nagite drew near. "We seek the daughter of the Nagite chief. They have stolen her again, and brought her back to the Agraharam. Hast thou seen aught of her?"

"The Swami's elephant," answered the Nagite, pointing to the animal, "brought her to the priest's house but a few minutes ago. I was there watching, according to the Dora's commands, and saw the servants of the priest carrying the white chief's daughter into his dwelling."

"And now?" asked Duncan unsteadily.

"She is behind the walls of the Swami's den. Let the Doras follow quickly in the steps of the Nagite, for the panther will not delay a second time in destroying what it has already wellnigh lost."

And once more the men gathered up their reins, gripped their saddles, and urged their tired beasts to follow closely in the steps of the running Nagite.

* * * * *

In the courtyard of the priest's house dishonour and death were closing round Stella, like a net from which it was impossible to escape. Death she had never feared, and both Ida and the priest had long understood that she would gladly have chosen it before the other; but now it was not even an alternative, and the sweetness for them and the bitterness for her lay in the thought.

"See, Ramayya, my friend, I have brought thee the bride thou hast desired!" And the courtyard vibrated with Ida's mocking laugh, as she pointed to Stella standing in the middle of the court, with her long green satin dress falling around her, and the darkness rapidly enveloping her.

Ramayya had just come from within. For a moment he hesitated in the doorway, looking down upon the girl. Behind him lay a dark passage that ran in and out like a burrow amidst endless rooms. His face was lit with the evil passions that seldom left it. Under his shaven skull his eyes, like Ida's, gleamed with the uncanny light of a wicked triumph.

"Thou hast done well, Ida," he said in his disagreeable voice. "Thou shalt have a queen's dowry and a queen's privileges for thy service."

Stella's eyes were fixed on his in her terrible effort to read the fate for her that he was conceiving in his mind, yet she did not notice that he had moved towards her till she felt his cruel grip upon her arm.

"Thou wilt remember the night in the temple, no doubt, when I told thee thou wouldst crawl at my feet for mercy -- and love," he said. "Have I not kept my word? But I will not taunt thee yet with my victory. There will be time enough for that. Come!"

Stella looked round like a dumb animal seeking to escape from the slaughterer's knife. In two or three minutes she knew that it would be too dark for anyone to find her. Yet there seemed no possibility of escape. She was at her hereditary enemy's mercy, or rather -- there was no suggestion of mercy with Ramayya or Ida -- she was in his power, and an object for his maddest caprice. His very hold made her turn weak and faint. His face frightened her as it had never done before. With an involuntary movement she obeyed his order, and moved towards the dark entrance to his house. The darkness within awaited her, and the thought beat upon her brain that once she had entered it she must never see light or life again.

"Ah!" laughed Ramayya ironically, as he watched her dumbly obey his order. "Hadst thou followed Ramayya's word so willingly hitherto, thou wouldst have saved thyself much misery to come, Nakshatram."

But Stella's apparent meekness had been but part of a woman's desperate resolve. Before he had even suspected her intention she had twisted her arm, slipped from his hold, and sped along the court. At the far end of the court a large descending well was in process of construction, the steps had not yet been built, but for the use of those who had begun to draw water two long planks had been set over the top of the well. Before Ramayya had recovered from his surprise Stella was standing in the centre of the planks.

"See, thou wicked priest," she cried. "God defends the weak. Thou mayst conquer, but not as thou desirest. When thou -- "

As she looked towards them an unexpected sight met her gaze. The knife, which Ida had drawn again on seeing her victim rush across the court, fell with a ring from the dasi's hand, while the dasi herself struggled in the clutch of a dark form like that of a forest-dweller. Simultaneously a revolver shot rang through the court. Ramayya, the priest, who was running towards Stella, staggered, but recovered himself immediately, and, as two or three forms dropped down from the court wall, he disappeared into the dark entrance of his house.

A moment later, Stella was lying unconscious in Duncan's arms, while Lloyd and Wrencroff were engaged in helping the Nagite to secure the dasi.

"It's time this she-devil was sent to penal servitude to get her out of harm's reach. It was almost worth the trouble coming so far to get hold of her alone," remarked the D.S.P. with satisfaction.

"I feel so dreadfully tired," said Wrencroff, with irrelevance, "that I could go right off to sleep on the spot."

"So could I," replied Lloyd; "only we'd better not do so. There may be trouble yet. The best thing to do will be to procure some bandies and taliaries from the village and get away from this place as quickly as possible. I gave my sub-inspector instructions to follow us up with as many men as he could get hold of, and to try to bring some food with him; so I expect we'll meet them somewhere on the way as we go along."

"Yes; I think that's the best and safest plan," said Duncan, who had heard Lloyd's advice. "So we'll send the Nagite to bring the kurnam to see what he can do in the way of providing us with the things we need."

CHAPTER XXXVI. NEMESIS.

PARADOXICAL as it may seem, the world-forsaking, Mukti-seekmg Sannyasi was suffering the torments of the damned. Such an experience ought, theoretically, to have been beyond the range of possibility for one who had been engaged for many years in deadening the physical senses. But in the case of the temple Sannyasi, the practice of Yoga, as has been already pointed out, was simply a garb assumed to disguise depraved tendencies. During the years that he had practised it, he had, it is true, succeeded in inuring himself to certain forms of physical pain; but he had accomplished this after the manner of a charlatan, and, with a view to the future, had taken care to preserve all his senses intact. Notwithstanding the strange things which the credulous pilgrims had seen him undergo, and their implicit faith in his superhuman power to bear physical suffering, there were weak spots in the Sannyasi's armour through which it was possible to inflict exquisite pain.

The Sannyasi's philosophy, as we have seen, was somewhat peculiar to himself; it was, in fact, centred wholly in himself. He distrusted everything but the reality of his own existence, and the truth of the horoscopic prophecy. Without belief in the action, good or bad, of supernatural beings; without fear of retribution; unfettered by any moral standard of conduct, and with an indefinite idea of immediate oblivion after death -- the Sannyasi had felt himself free to use every means that might tend to fulfil the prophecy. Judged from an egoistical point of view, his system was beautifully simple and effective; from another point of view, however, the Sannyasi's principles were a grave danger to the community, and the Sannyasi himself a most treacherous individual.

In spite of his depravity, the Sannyasi was conscious at times of the enormity of the treacherous dealings which he had had with friend and foe alike, and, if there was one thought which tortured him more than the prospect of losing the wealth which he had accumulated in the temple, it was the occasional nightmare that someone might deal with him as he had dealt with others, and deprive him of the life which he loved for the sake of the wealth he possessed and the pleasures to which he had looked forward so many years.

Two days after the incident in the Agraharam we find the Sannyasi painfully distressed with the doubt that his philosophy was, after all, seriously defective. It had failed, or, at least, seemed likely to fail, as a means of bringing him safely to the realisation of his hopes and dreams, and, what was more serious still, at a most terrible crisis in his self-seeking career, it had left him deprived of the hopefulness of the all-propitiating pantheist, and also of the stoical indifference of truer fatalism.

Once before in his egoistical independence he had overreached himself, and, to his great sorrow, missed the straight course to his destiny; and now when he had seemed on the very eve of success some hostile grahi or impish spirit had turned all his schemes topsyturvy and left him stranded -- stripped of all he held most dear, and bemoaning the fact that he had not propitiated more of the traditional spirits of earth and heaven and hell, who are said to turn men's prudence to foolishness and lead them blindly into the very dangers which they seek to avoid. For, indeed, he had lacked wisdom and foresight when, forsaking his usual policy of clinging close to the sanctuary of the temple, he had wandered farther than he intended in his search for the powerful medicinal roots which were at last to drag the long-hidden secret from his victim. Had he been a less consummate villain, the Sannyasi's condition might have been considered pitiable: for he had not only missed a second time the Colonel's wealth which he had striven so many years to discover, but had lost, as we shall shortly see, all that he had hoarded in the temple vaults, and was in serious danger of losing his infamous life also. But it needed more than human intelligence to find grounds for pity in the Sannyasi's condition, and the Nagite brothers were, after all, very human, and dealt out their sense of justice under the stern principles of the Lex Talionis.

It was night -- the third night from the Shiva-ratri -- and the moon had just sunk below the horizon, leaving the forest trembling in darkness that rumbled with a gathering storm.

But the storm that swept through the trees snapping the mighty branches like twigs, and the darkness that deepened till the form of the earth was obliterated, were but trifles compared with the darkness in which the Sannyasi lay, and the deadly struggle through which he was passing. For he lay bound and bleeding, near the sacred symbol of the Nagites, in the heart of the mountain peak where daylight never entered. Unknown terrors, persuasion, threats, promises, and finally torture had been brought to bear by Chirtha and Yellum in order to drag from him the secret of the Colonel's prison; but he had denied the knowledge, until a threat from Chirtha to sever certain nerves and tendons in his arms and legs, drew from him an exclamation that amounted to a confession. To the despair of the two brothers he had borne all their ingenious devices without a murmur. None knew his real character better than they. Naga, their father, had impressed his treachery upon their minds from the time that they had learnt to handle a bow; the Colonel had often told them of the terrible things he had suffered at his hands. A thousand things told them that his asceticism was all false and that the mainspring of his life was lust of wealth. And so they had been unprepared for the fortitude with which he had borne their attempts to extort from him the knowledge they desired. The threat to destroy the power of his arms and legs had drawn from him the first signs of wavering and given them a clue to the kind of treatment he dreaded most of all.

For a few moments the brothers consulted together, and then proceeded to light a forest torch; for they had so far carried on their work in the intense darkness of the cave, hoping thereby to create a greater state of terror in the Sannyasi's mind.

In the light of the resinous torch the rough, jagged walls of the mountain cave had a most ghostly appearance, and brought to the eyes of the Sannyasi a look of terror which the darkness had failed to produce. His mind went back to another prison and the tortures which he himself had inflicted within its walls, and an irresistible shudder passed over him, as he wondered what fate was awaiting him here in this subterranean temple -- for, though he had never been in it before, he recognised the dreaded chamber of the Nagites by the painted bronze cobra that stood two or three feet away, glaring ominously at him through the two large diamonds which stood for its eyes.

Having stuck the burning torch into a hole in the wall the brothers proceeded to light others, which they fixed in different parts of the cave until the place was a blaze of lights. They then brought two curious chests, and, after some difficulty, opened them, and poured the contents out upon the floor of the cave. To most people the sight that met their gaze would have seemed too wonderful to be true: bracelets, belts, tiaras, precious stones, gold, silver, and strange coins poured forth in a confused heap. But the Nagite brothers seemed perfectly indifferent to the fabulous treasure which they were handling, and the Sannyasi almost yelled in agony as he watched them flinging the different articles upon the ground. To him they represented the supreme efforts of a lifetime and the price for which he had bartered his caste and creed. Fearful lest they should be discovered during the constant searches which the police were carrying out in and around the temple, he had transferred them for the sake of greater security, as he had thought, behind the screen of slimy creepers in the hollow near the temple wall -- only to find them here in the hands of his deadly enemies. To see them exposed thus to the gaze of the two brothers, and to know that they might do with them as they willed, was greater torture to the Sannyasi than anything which they had yet inflicted upon him in the shape of physical pain. Chirtha seemed to understand something of the mental agony through which he was passing. With supreme indifference he took up a beautiful row of pearls, held it up for his brother's inspection, and then, taking up a piece of rock he began slowly to pound them, one by one, to dust.

The Sannyasi uttered a groan. The brothers looked at him questioningly, with a suggestion of surprise.

"Ye are ignorant and foolish to do that," he said with a bitter laugh.

"Why?" asked Chirtha carelessly, as he broke another pearl.

"It was the gift of a rani who wished for an heir -- and -- and got one."

"What is that to us?" asked Yellum scornfully, as another pearl crumbled to powder.

"It would buy much forest and many cattle," answered the Sannyasi with a swift glance at their faces.

"We do not want the cattle," answered Chirtha. "As for the forest it is ours already. The mountain peak also will be ours again, now that the Lingites have been caught in their own net."

"It is worth ten thousand rupees. Why are ye so mad as to destroy it?" said the Sannyasi with fierce impatience.

Chirtha put down the rock and held up the remaining half of the row of pearls.

"See," he said, watching the Sannyasi closely; "it is thine if thou wilt tell us that which we desire to know, and all this also," he added, pointing to the heaps of jewelled ornaments. "But if thou wilt not, then let the burden of that which is to be rest with thyself."

"How can that be revealed which is not known?" asked the hypocritical Sannyasi with sullen stubbornness. "Thou wilt not, then?" demanded Yellum threateningly.

The Sannyasi closed his eyes and remained silent. "See!" said Chirtha fiercely. "When the White Chief, our father, escaped from the temple he told us that which made our ears tingle and our hearts burn. We would have slain thee long ago, so fierce was our anger, but the Chief held back our hands saying: 'Wait till the child be found.' The daughter of the Chief is now safe with her people, and our hands are free. But though we would prefer to slay thee, we love our father the White Chief, and we would give thee thy life for his. Tell us where he is so that we may go to him and deliver him, and thou mayst go in safety with thy wealth -- if not, we will drag the knowledge from thee limb by limb."

But the Sannyasi remained with eyes closed, indifferent to both appeal and threat.

The brothers sat down beside him, one on each side. Their hands moved lightly over his limbs as if they were massaging him to sleep. But sleep was far from the thoughts of the Sannyasi, and the Nagites felt him shudder beneath their touch. Then Chirtha chuckled softly to himself. The Sannyasi's sullen determination to keep his eyes closed had given him the inspiration he needed. He bade Yellum bring a slit of the burning torch; and when the latter had brought it, he took it, and slowly singed off the eyelashes of one of the Sannyasi's eyes. The Sannyasi writhed in his bonds but showed no other sign of giving way. Then Yellum at a sign opened the ascetic's eye, and for a moment the burning stick hung threateningly over the dark pupil; but the Sannyasi's endurance was at an end. He yelled out in his terror, and protested frantically that if they ruined his sight they would ruin the only chance they had of ever learning what they wished to know; for once blind he would rather die than live.

Chirtha put aside the miniature torch and smiled grimly, for the game seemed at last to the righteous.

The immediate danger of the dreaded mutilation being past, the Sannyasi lay panting, with his wicked eyes fixed upon the faces of the Nagite brothers.

"Ye desire knowledge that I alone possess; what is it ye desire to give in return?" he demanded, his eyes burning with the light of avarice.

"Thy life," answered Chirtha.

"And the wealth thou lovest," added Yellum.

"That is to say you would add nothing to what is already mine," he said, assuming the stolid look that usually preceded a lapse into stubborn silence.

"Thou hast forfeited them," said Chirtha coldly. "They are no longer thine; yet we would give them back to thee for the life of our father -- the White Chief."

"And how shall I know that ye will not take them again, when the White Chief is restored to you?" demanded the Sannyasi with a sneer.

"We will swear -- "

"Swear!" interrupted the ascetic scornfully. "By what? What gods have ye to swear by?"

"We are not false like the temple priests," was the ironical rejoinder of Yellum. "If we swear we keep our oaths -- as thou well knowest. What wouldst thou have us swear by?"

The Sannyasi looked at them curiously. He knew perfectly well, as Yellum had suggested, that faithfulness was one of the characteristics of their tribe. But there was one being for whom they had a strange reverence and a pathetic affection beyond all others.

"By the honour of your White Chief," he said slowly.

"Tsa!" ejaculated the brothers together. "It shall be as thou hast said -- by our father, the Chief, thou shalt go unharmed."

The Sannyasi once more breathed freely. They had promised, and they would certainly keep their word.

For some minutes the brothers sat patiently waiting for him to speak.

"Time passes, swami, and we wait for thy words," said Chirtha, irritated by the silence.

A look of triumphant avidity stole into the face of the Sannyasi.

"The price ye would give for the knowledge ye desire is too little," he said curtly.

An exclamation of surprise broke from the lips of the Nagite brothers. The Sannyasi laughed harshly. "Think ye," he said, "that I count the life of the White Chief so small a thing as ye would make it? Add to those" (pointing to the heaps of jewels) "half the wealth he possesses, and I will reveal the secret your hearts burn to learn."

"How can we give that which belongs to the Chief?" asked Yellum angrily.

"It is for his own life."

"Ah, but he has been willing to lose his life to guard it, as thou well knowest," answered Chirtha.

"True, but there is a reason for which he would give both life and wealth in order to have a few days' freedom," answered the Sannyasi.

"And that?"

"Ramayya's intention."

"What is that?"

"To slay his daughter before her marriage with the Collector Dora."

"Oh, ho!" exclaimed the Nagites in surprise.

"Even so we cannot do that which thou demandest," answered Chirtha quickly.

The Sannyasi chuckled behind the sullen look he assumed; for he had seen the rapid interchange of glances between the brothers and had learnt what he had desired to know -- the Nagites' knowledge of the hiding place in which the White Chief had stowed his wealth.

"Enough!" he answered, as if stating his terms for the last time.

"Give me a part of the gold and jewels now, and swear in the name of the Chief to tell him that his life was given for half his wealth. I have spoken," and the Sannyasi turned his head, and closed his eyes.

For some time the two brothers spoke in a low voice at the end of the cave; then they came to him, and, without a word, lifted him up and carried him along the passage that led to the Rishi Umbrella. Near the place where Chirtha had drawn the iron gate across the passage they laid him on the ground and left him in the dark. After a long painful suspense they returned and carried him back to the cave. Near the place where he had lain before they had carried him into the passage, was a heap of uncut precious stones, two or three small bars of gold, and some large bars of silver. His eyes glistened at the sight of them, but his innate lust for wealth was insatiable, and he would have still lingered to strike a better bargain, had not the fierce curtness of the Nagite brothers warned him that they were in a dangerous mood, and might retract the promises they had already made, and fall back upon some terrible form of torture to quicken the confession they were eager to learn.

"Ye have sworn on the head of the White Chief?" he said.

"And we will keep the oath," was the answer.

"While searching the temple, the foreigners and the police found the secret path that runs beneath the temple," said the Sannyasi.

"We know it; we were with them when they passed along it," answered the Nagites.

"Ah! then ye will have little difficulty in finding that which ye seek. Go to the ancient well beyond the temple walls. Open the entrance to the secret way, descend the steps and follow the stream to the steps that ascend to the temple. Instead of mounting the steps that lead to the garbhaliam, remove the stone step in the centre of the stairway. There is a door behind, open it with the key ye will find in my hair and creep through the opening. The White Chief lies within."

Chirtha almost snatched the key from the head of the Sannyasi, as he removed the painted half of the cocoa-nut shell that surmounted his verminous hair.

"Come, let us haste!" he cried to his brother.

"And I," suggested the Sannyasi; "am I to remain bound like this?"

"Yes; thou needst fear naught. If thy words are true, Yellum will return to release thee," said Chirtha, as the brothers turned to go.

"If they are false," he added, coming back to the Sannyasi and looking down upon him with terrible eyes, "we will deal with thee as thou deservest."

The Sannyasi almost laughed with joy as he heard their footsteps die away in the distance. His fertile mind had been at work as to the means of becoming possessed of the White Chief's wealth, since the moment he had gleaned the information that its hiding place was no secret to the brothers. He had trembled at the thought that one of the brothers might stay behind, or that they might be tempted to extinguish the torches before they left. But fortunately for the Sannyasi neither of these dreaded events had occurred, and now he was alone, to seek at leisure for that which he panted after as a desert tracker pants for water.

Two or three of the torches had died down to a smoulder, but one was still burning brightly -- the one the brothers had probably used in getting the little heap of jewels -- and, what was still more important, was within easy reach for the purpose which had already taken shape in the Sannyasi's mind. He wriggled up to it, and placed himself so that it might burn off the bonds around his wrists. The flame burnt his flesh also, but he clenched his teeth and bore the pain stoically for the sake of the reward that awaited him. His wrists free, the rest was easy; and soon he found himself at liberty to search without restraint. He seized the friendly torch that had freed him, swung it into a bright flame, and moved about the cave with wild eyes and throbbing pulse. He had something like four hours to find the treasure he was seeking for, but during that time he must secrete as much as possible in some other place and get away before Yellum's return. If he did not succeed as well as he hoped, he would, of course, wait in the passage somewhere, and deal with the unsuspecting Yellum as it might seem best.

With the great predominant passion of his nature sharpening his senses to a point of inspiration, he moved towards the far side of the cave where the rock cistern with its ceaseless lapping sound seemed to call him to itself. Terrible stories of the petrifying powers of this subterranean lake had come to the Sannyasi's ears; but as he looked out across its dull surface, streaked here and there with the light of his torch, the reality seemed even more dreadful than the embellished description sometimes given by those who had heard of its existence. He shivered as he thought of a ghostly hand stretched out between the streaks of light to draw him down into its dark abysmal depth. Fate or instinct drew his eyes towards the roughly hewn path along the rocky wall on his right.

As he stood looking at it with a growing suspicion, a tiny red dot on the ledge above made his heart beat more quickly. With slow careful steps he worked his way up and along the dangerous pathway until he reached the point that had attracted his attention. Here he found, as he had expected, a small piece of smouldering torch on a slightly broader part of the rocky ledge. For an hour or more he clung to the spot, held as it were by a magnet, beating on the rocks and clawing in the crevices. But he found nothing, and almost maddened by despair, he abandoned the broader ledge and moved a few yards farther along the pathway. Hardly had he renewed his search when his fingers came in contact with something loose. With trembling fingers and bated breath he tried to remove it like a loose stone, but found as he drew it out that it was a kind of drawer or long tray, and the next moment his eyes were feasting on a wonderful array of uncut rubies and diamonds -- many of which he remembered to have seen years before when, as Raymond the overseer, he had been a trusted member of the Colonel's household. The supreme moment of his life had come. Uncut as they were the jewels gleamed and glittered beneath the flaming torch, and he would have hugged them gladly to his breast as if they had been his natural offspring. But the time was short and it was necessary for him to get them away before Yellum's return. He tried to pull the tray out of its receptacle; but it was much longer than he had thought it to be, and in his blind avidity he stepped back, forgetful of his precarious position on the narrow ledge. For a second he hung suspended over the whispering water with his toes spasmodically clinging to the edge of the ledge. But strive as he might he could not recover his balance. Slowly the drawer slipped from its place; the torch fell from his nerveless fingers, and, with a shriek, he fell backward amidst a shower of precious stones.

The Sannyasi was by no means a poor swimmer, and, in spite of his ignorance of his surroundings and the awful darkness that enveloped him, he might possibly have succeeded in finding some way of escape out of his miserable predicament. But he had woven the last thread into the web of his life. Maddened by his misfortune and somewhat startled by the length of time it took to rise to the surface, he made two or three vigorous strokes beneath the water, and, without knowing that he had done so, passed beneath a section of the wall hollowed out into a sort of cave. Here he swam to and fro seeking for something to hold on to or some place of safety. But there was neither. Moreover, the roof was so low in places that his head was every now and then forced down into the water. Gradually it dawned upon his intelligence that the supreme moment of his destiny had also been the signal of his doom. The thought terrified him, and he began to cry out till the unseen cavernous walls echoed and re-echoed his frenzied shrieks. Physically exhausted and mentally torn by doubts and fears he at last lay quite passive. For a while the Stygian water held him in its pitiless embrace, lapping softly all round him with a gurgling sound like the laughter of a legion of triumphant spirits; tantalising visions of power and pleasures untasted seered his brain; vices, frauds, hypocrisies, and unmentionable crimes passed like spectres before his mental gaze; then death seized him, and carried his soul to await its final judgment.

CHAPTER XXXVII. THE DEATH OF A HERO.

RATHER more than two miles from the city walls, a straggling spur of the red limestone ridges ends abruptly in a pear-shaped konda or hill. Standing out as it does in the midst of a vast plain it is a prominent landmark for miles around to wayfarers making towards the city. Like many other conspicuous features in this wild bit of country, where nature's mad'moods have left so many monstrous freaks, the curiously-shaped konda has, at some time or other, worked upon the religious instincts of the people until some "virtue-seeking" ascetic, more pious than the rest, conceived the idea of adorning its almost inaccessible summit with a shrine to Shiva, and then of fixing his own permanent habitation beneath its shadow.

But, although the two or three hundred feet below its rugged top are sufficiently steep to cool the virtuous ardour of many of those who would like to pay a visit to the scared monolith and the traditional grave of the Hindu stylite who erected it, yet, below this point, a part of the hill slopes downwards in undulating curves till, half a mile away, it reaches the level of the plains. Over the middle of this antenniform member of the pear-shaped hill passes, like a bright broad ribbon, the main road of the district as it runs due east in the direction of the Black Hills. On the city side the road rises steadily till it reaches its highest point on the undulating ridge, then with a sudden turn and a sharp drop it descends to the level of a tank bund on the other side of the konda.

Thus, travellers coming from the east, on reaching the highest point of the road after rounding the sharp bend, suddenly find themselves looking down upon the city that stands between its two rivers about a mile and a half away.

On the second day after the Sannyasi's fatal discovery, two wayfarers, who had been toiling with slow, painful steps up the steep bank that ascends from the tank bund, arrived on the crest of the ridge and rested there a moment, scanning the low stretch of country that lay between them and the city. They had evidently come far and suffered much in the coming.

Hunger was written unmistakably upon their sunken cheeks; utter weariness and dejection were visible in every movement of their limbs; a feverish anxiety gave an unnatural brilliancy to their eyes, and, had it not been for the powerful motive that urged them on to still further action, they would in all probability have collapsed where they stood.

An acute observer, watching the face of the older man, might have seen the look of disappointment in his fine grey eyes change slowly to an expression of incipient despair, as he measured the distance to the city.

"So near . . . and yet so far!" he murmured hopelessly to himself. "To be within sight and yet to lack the power to shield or warn! To lie still and look helplessly on while their revenge is wrought -- ah! what exquisite joy for them to know it! But, no, it shall not be while one spark of life remains to keep this broken body alive."

But his body was evidently too worn and battered to keep pace with the indomitable spirit that dwelt within; for as he moved forward to continue the journey down the road, he staggered and would have fallen had not his companion sprung to his side in time to prevent him from doing so.

"Hunger and pain have made thee weak. Rest a little here till thy strength returns," pleaded the younger man, whose dark eyes glowed with the pathetic wistfulness of dumb animals that lack the power to ease the pain of those they love.

"Rest!" exclaimed the other ironically. "What rest can there be for me while Ramayya the priest lies, like a snake in secret, waiting for the moment to strike. Thou wouldst not surely have me pay tomorrow with tears of blood for every moment spent in ease to-day?"

"Nay; God grant to-morrow may see the end of all thy sorrows; though I fear it will not bring thee back the strength our enemies have stolen from thee."

"'Tis true. But the little they have left me shall yet bring down upon their heads the miseries they have planned for others."

"Let us go, then!"

"Ay, it is necessary. Thou thyself saw Ramayya in his haste to reach the city."

"That is so," muttered the young man fiercely. "While thou wert resting in the tope near Kalvarum I entered the village in search of food. The grain merchant in the bazaar would not believe the words I spake to him, and I was turning away in sorrow when the Swami's bandy stopped near the merchant's door. He was beside himself with rage because the bullocks would not move. 'Quick, thou fool!' he cried to the driver. 'How many times have I told thee already that it is necessary to reach the city before sunset if the white jackal is to carry a corpse to his den instead of a bride. Thinkest thou that the reward shall be thine if thou failest to do so? Nay; not one mite of it shall come thy way if that happen which I have told thee must not come to pass.'"

The old man's eyes flashed with a terrible fury as he listened to the other's words.

"Ah!" he breathed, straightening himself with an effort. "His words have given me back some of the strength I lacked. Come! thou see'st for thyself, Chirtha, that it is necessary to hasten if we would profit by the Sannyasi's warning."

And the younger man, seeing the stern look of determination on his companion's haggard face, bowed his head in silent acquiescence, and moved on down the road towards the city. But even the invincible spirit could not altogether sustain the mortal weakness of the shattered frame; and, less than a mile farther on, where the two lines of tamarind trees changed the white road into a darkened avenue, the older man's strength again failed as it had done on the crest of the ridge.

The air was now thick with a fine sand that nearly choked and blinded the two tired travellers. A furious wind was screaming through the line of trees. A bright flash followed by an angry growl told of the rain that would soon be following in the wake of the swirling sand. With the gentleness of a woman the younger man lifted his fallen companion, and, having carried him some distance, placed him against one of the larger trees so that the fierce blasts of the storm might not hurt him.

The stricken man groaned in his helplessness.

"Nay; do not despair. It is little more than the flight of an arrow," said his companion.

"Ay, it may be so; but to what purpose serveth the kunta when the water is too low for the dying animals to reach it? See! the sun will set in less than an hour, and I ... I am of no more use than the broken reed."

"Nay, do not say so!" cried the other in a voice that was strangled to a hoarse whisper, as his thoughts went back to the splendid specimen of manhood which had once stood in the place of the wreck now lying against the foot of the tree. "The city is quite near. I will go and return quickly."

"To what good?"

"I will seek a means of getting thee to the place where thou desirest to be."

"Thou hast sought twice already, and failed."

"'Tis true. Those others wished not to come so far, and, being foolish, would not heed thy words."

"Even the merchant in Paniram would not," answered the sick man bitterly. "He preferred to take thy hunting knife rather than the pledge I offered to him to tempt him to supply our needs."

"Yet, permit me, and I will try again. There is no other way . . . and this time I shall not fail."

"Go, then, Chirtha! It is, as thou sayest, our only hope. Promise the man thou findest willing to come anything so that he can come and return to the city in time. Give him the Collector Sahib's name as'bond, and if that satisfy not, give him this," and as he spoke the older man took what seemed to be a rough-looking piece of glass from the pouch round his neck, and handed it to the other. "Tell him that it is worth a lakh of rupees, and that he may hold it till thy promises are redeemed."

As the young man took the precious stone and sped along the road a streak of light wriggled across the blackened sky, a terrific peal of thunder rolled above the tree-tops, while heavy drops of rain began to fall with an increasing patter amongst the leaves.

From the cut of his clothes the man lying at the foot of the tamarind tree might have been taken for a Mohammedan, but there was a suspicion of incongruity between the man himself and the clothes he wore, for the splendid grey eyes, and the contour of his strong face -- set now with the fierce determination of men who-die fighting -- belied the outward semblance of a follower of the Prophet, and suggested something more than an Asiatic origin, in spite of the strange hue of his deeply bronzed skin.

"Stella! . . . Stella!" he murmured weakly, as the storm beat down upon him in its pitiless violence. "God guard thee like one of His angels, for thine enemies are strong and treacherous. Would that I could have seen thee far away from their machinations and happy in the love of the man whom thy heart hath chosen. But it has been willed otherwise ...!" And as he finished speaking the tired traveller sank back against the tree, and, in spite of the deluge of rain that was now pouring down upon him, slept like a man whose mind and body are thoroughly exhausted.

* * * * *

In a well-watered compound beyond the city walls, bright, in spite of the increasing heat, with the bloom of roses, oleanders, sunflowers and gorgeous lilies, stood, and still stands, a beautiful little English church of Gothic pretensions.

Under normal conditions, the beautiful interior of the sacred building was solemnly impressive, and reverently suggestive of the unseen Presence to Whom the prayers and the praise of the faithful had been, and still continued to be offered. But if the reader, who has so patiently followed the course of this story, had entered the church, about the time that the two tired travellers arrived on the crest of the ridge, he would have found the sense of the supernatural subservient, at least for the time being, to an intensely human interest, and an increasing burr of excitement disturbing the reverent silence that usually prevailed there. And further, he would have found the inside of the little church extraordinarily gay with a gorgeous display of floral decorations. Gigantic pots overflowing with ferns and lilies, or filled with huge waving aloes and palms, lined the aisles and filled the sanctuary; masses of maidenhair and bright-hued flowers covered the pulpit, the lectern, and the priest's desk; while strings of bright green leaves, intertwined with the white and purple flowers of the church creepers and the orange-red blossom of the mothakapuvu, hung along the walls and crossed the chancel in the shape of a triumphal arch.

It was the Collector Sahib's wedding-day, and the few Europeans to be found within a hundred miles were now gathered together to do honour to the occasion. The eagerly-expected bride, dressed in a wonderful gown of white silk, produced for the occasion by the bazaar tailors under the supervision of the padre's wife, entered the church leaning on Wrencroff's arm. The service passed without a hitch; the solemn questions and answers flowing smoothly as if Stella had been used all her life to the language in which they were given -- the little gold ring being slipped upon the bride's finger at the crucial moment so that henceforth she became the wife of Percival Duncan till death should take one or both of them.

At the church door the bullock coach, which was to convey the bride and bridegroom to the Collector's bungalow, was being decorated with garlands of leaves and flowers; and, while the peons and servants were engaged in putting the last touches to the gorgeous trappings which they had prepared for the homeward journey, Duncan with a happy smile turned to receive the friendly congratulations of a group of Indian officials. Stella was standing on the top step, and, as he turned to introduce her to one of the tahsildars, the smile suddenly died out of his face, his eyes dilated with a great terror, and the bronzed hue of his face turned to a ghastly grey. At the same moment a hundred horrified exclamations burst from Hindu and European alike. A man, who had concealed his face by wearing his upper cloth as a woman wears the upper part of her sari, had sprung forward, seized Stella with one hand, and raised the other above his head, so that the last glint of the setting sun caught the blade of a long knife which he held in it.

But he had evidently misjudged the distance in springing towards Stella; for, instead of alighting on the step itself, his foot rested on the edge of it, and before he could balance himself to strike, another figure, that had followed in his wake like a flash, had gripped his throat in a grasp of steel and dragged him from the steps.

"Thou hast failed, Ramayya, priest and traitor!" cried the second in a terrible voice of anger.

For a second the priest gazed into his captor's face in astonishment.

Then laughed -- the harsh triumphant laugh of an escaped fiend.

"Nay, thou white thief . . . see!" And before any one of the horrified spectators could lift a hand to prevent the murderous deed, he raised his knife again, brushed aside the handless stump of an arm that was lifted to ward off the blow, and, with a yell of satisfaction, struck; then leapt to his feet, slipped through an opening in the crowd, and disappeared into the thicket beyond.

The whole incident had only occupied a second or two, passing from one stage to another with startling rapidity, and had already reached its terrible climax before any of the spectators had fully realised its dreadful nature.

Duncan, Wrencroff, Lloyd and others had moved to the man's assistance when they had seen the priest's knife raised a second time; but they had been too late to stay the deed, and, for a moment, none seemed to grasp the reason why it had met with so little resistance, or the identity of the victim who had risked his life for Stella's.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Duncan incredulously, as he bent down to raise the man up. "It is the Colonel himself!"

"Great Scott, you're right!" answered Wrencroff, who was by his side. "Let me see if I can do anything for him. Drive that crowd back, Percy, while I see to him. Ah, that's you, Stella, is it?" he asked, looking up at the sound of a sob just behind him. "You have guessed who it is?"

"Yes, I saw his face as he dragged Ramayya back, and recognised it at once, though I have never seen it without the dark colour he always used in the forest. I knew his voice also . . . there is no other voice like it," answered the sobbing girl, as she gently raised the Colonel's head and placed it in her lap.

"Yes; hold his head so! Now bend down and listen. He is trying to speak to you," directed Wren-croff. "No, Percy," he continued in answer to Duncan's question. "It's no good, I'm afraid. The wound is a nasty one, and I don't think he has the strength to get over it. They've evidently played the deuce with him since we last saw him. It will be best to let him rest where he is, without moving him. Poor old Colonel . . . fearless and self-sacrificing to the last!"

"What is it, Colonel?" asked Duncan, with a curious catch in his voice, as he tried to read the mute appeal in the dying man's eyes.

"He can't see Stella as he would like to," said Mrs. Jackson quietly, as she handed her husband's handkerchief to Wrencroff in order to staunch the wound. "Let me take his hand, dear, and you move round so that he can see you. Ah! that is it! His eyes have already lighted up with pleasure."

A trickle of dark blood was oozing through the Colonel's lips, and his breath was coming in painful gasps.

He made an effort to speak and failed, the blood flowing more freely from his mouth as he sank back into Mrs. Jackson's arms.

Duncan was ordering one of the church peons to bring some water from the vestry. The engineer's wife, who seemed to have a wonderful, sympathetic faculty for interpreting the dying man's wishes, beckoned to him to come quickly.

"I think he wants you also," she said, "so that he may see you both at the same time."

"Is there no hope, Guy?"

"None."

Duncan took Stella's hand and knelt near the Colonel so that he could see them both as he desired.

A glad light came into the dying man's eyes. Again he tried to speak, but no words came through his lips. With a weak, uncertain movement he placed his hand over theirs, and let it rest there, his eyes closed, and a look of contentment spread over his noble face.

"He is dead!" murmured Wrencroff a moment later.

"Dead!" ejaculated all.

"Yes."

And so it was; without a murmur, without the last word of farewell he would have wished to say, the brave old Colonel had passed into his long-needed rest.

As the group around the body bent their heads in mournful sorrow, a moan indescribably pitiful made them look towards a dark form huddled up near the dead man's feet.

"Oh!" exclaimed Wrencroff, in surprise and pity. "It's Chirtha! . . . poor beggar!"

"Poor fellow!" answered Duncan. "Let him weep out his grief at his Chief's feet, for he and his tribe have indeed lost a friend to-day."

THE END